
SETUP
--------
After the incident with smuggling from adventure #6, Hida Ryuden had put the word out that magistrates should be on the lookout for smugglers, since the men who guard their caravans shouldn't be trusted and might be hamlet burners.

Asao is a merchant who deals in incense and perfumes, who also smuggles liquid void into Crab lands from Ryoko Owari.  Here's an account of his arrest:

 - He arrives at the capital of the Ibuki domain, and his caravan is searched.  Because he has his casks of liquid void well concealed, they are not discovered.

 - Asao and his most trusted men check into a nice inn, while most of his guards are sent to a shabby lodging at the outskirts of town.

 - Hida Seitarou, the chief magistrate for the Ibuki domain, learns that Asao has entered the city, and feels that his men need to do more than a rudimentary search of his belongings.  So he takes some bushi and conducts a more thorough search, discovering the liquid void.  Asao and his trusted bodyguards is arrested and taken into custody.

 - One of Asao's hired caravan guards, who was on his way to see Asao, sees the arrest.  Fearing that they will be arrested as well, he informs the rest of the guards, who ditch their weapons and leave the city immediately, making their way quickly back towards Scorpion lands.

 - After a short time, Seitarou interrogates Asao and discovers that he has other caravan guards and sends some bushi to arrest them.  The bushi discover that they have fled the city.

 - Seitarou fears that these men are hamlet burners and that they are now loose and ready to strike, because this is exactly the sort of situation he was warned about.  Asao claims (truthfully) that he had never met any of these men before hiring them and that he simply took whoever the sketchy mercenary hirers in Ryoko Owari gave him.

Hida Ryuden sends the PCs, along with Hantei Itsuro, to the Ibuki domain to investigate this matter and determine the likelihood that these vanishing caravan guards are hamlet burners.


IMPORTANT EVENTS
-------------------------
Here are the things which will happen when the PCs get to the city:

1) Seitarou will meet with them and formally welcome them to the city.  He'll welcome them to speak with whoever they want and assures them that he won't be offended if they double-check anything he tells them so as to assure the honesty and rightness of their findings.  He puts them up in the finest inn in the city, and tells them that he will be at their service as soon as they wish to begin investigating.


2) On their way to the inn, the PCs are approached by a young man who introduces himself as Daiki.  He offers to buy the PCs a meal and gives them gifts as thanks for investigating the death of Yue, who he explains was his sister.  Over lunch, he tells them that he suspects that Yue was murdered as a revenge killing for something that the Gengobe family did - he knows that they made a lot of enemies during the coup, and suspects that they are into other sketchy things as well.

Daiki wants to investigate the affairs of the Gengobe and uncover who killed his sister so that he can take revenge.  He asks the PCs to write him a letter of introduction and possibly to even assign some low ranking magistrate to help him.  He offers to reward the PCs for whatever they can do.  He asks that they meet him the following morning so that he can take their letters and reward them with lavish gifts.

One trouble with all of this is that Daiki admits that his father Masahito doesn't approve of his plans to seek revenge, fearing the Daiki will be putting himself in danger.  Daiki trumpets his own bravery but also assures the PCs that he will be well protected, as his family runs a mercenary business and he can easily afford lots of protection.  He hopes that the PCs will see the honor in his intentions and support him against his father's wishes.

The PCs will notice that Daiki has several bodyguards closely following him, though Daiki has them wait in the next room while sitting with the PCs.  If they look into the matter (possibly by interrogating Daiki), they will find that his father assigned them to look after him to keep him out of trouble.  More on that later.


3) Soon afterwards, a woman named Shinjo Juri who is also staying at their inn introduces herself.  She offers them some gaijin-style beer and brags at great length about how authentically brewed it is.  She explains that she's a merchant trying to do business with the Masahito family, who are local merchants.  She has recently completed an extended trip through many Crab domains selling her beer, and she wishes to make things easier by having some Crab merchant family take over distribution in Crab lands so that she only needs to deliver to them.

The Masahito have offered to be her distributors, and she wants to check them out before entering into such a relationship.  She explains that she was hoping to find a samurai merchant lineage to deal with, since peasant merchants tend to be overly concerned about money rather than thinking always of honor and faithfulness.  She tells the PCs that she'd be extremely grateful if they would find out anything they know about the Masahito and fill her in so that she can decide whether to sign a contract with them.

Daiki is Masahito's son (which he has told the PCs), and she will try to get them to tell her about him, since they just met with him.  She will ask probing questions until she learns that he has plans to travel to investigate the Gengobe family.


4) The PCs will presumably interrogate Aito, but will not learn anything to shed any light on his missing men.  If they ask him about his opium contacts in the city, he'll explain that he dealt with a man named Chihaya, who runs a local inn.  He has already been investigated and is awaiting trial.

If the PCs look deeply into this matter, they will find that Chihaya is a man who married into the Noriaki merchant family.  Noriaki's son Umi married Masahito's daughter, and the two families do a great deal of business.  The Noriaki family has a number of bars, inns, and teahouses, and the Masahito do a lot of carpentry and mercenary hiring.


5) At some point the PCs will be passing by a construction site and recognize some of the workers as the men who tried to kill them and survived back in adventure #2.  Those men had been sentenced to hard labor, and apparently the Masahito family bought their contracts and put them to work in their carpentry business.  Although they are on their breaks when the PCs see them, they claim to be worked to the bone.

In fact they have been given cushy jobs as a reward for not ratting on the Gengobe after being caught.  Masahito is gradually giving them more freedom and better jobs while preserving the illusion that they are being worked hard and occasionally beaten for slacking, etc.


6) Depending on the PCs interest in the Masahito, they might be approached by a man named Ouga, who runs his own carpentry firm.  He complains that he has been harassed by the Masahito family for competing with them.  His men have been bullied into leaving his employ and going to work for them (under threat of being evicted, etc) and they don't play fair in general.

He was also recently assaulted by Daiki.  Ouga publicly said that Yue probably got what was coming to her, since her family is so dishonest and she was probably involved in something criminal.  Daiki rounded up a few men and then attacked Ouga, having his men hold Ouga's arms while Daiki pummeled him.  Rather than being arrested and sentenced, Masahito arranged for Daiki to spend a few months in a monastery thanks to some generous gifts to both the monastery and Seitarou.

Daiki's bodyguards, which the PCs noticed while meeting him, are assigned to keep him out of such trouble in the future.


7) At some point during the day, Juri will approach Daiki and offer to help him investigate the Gengobe.  She'll explain that she's visited that city and made numerous business contacts and has even made friends with the city magistrate.  She offers to write Daiki some letters of introduction, but says that she expects to be rewarded for it.  They make plans to meet late that night when her business dealings have been conducted to discuss the particulars of her letters and reward.

On his way to meet her, Daiki will be jumped by several men, who expertly capture him and take him to an empty warehouse.  He is interrogated at length, asked to tell his captors "the location of the hamlet".  They insist that as Masahito's son he must know where it is, but Daiki actually has no idea what they're talking about, though he reasons (correctly) that this must be about the hamlet burnings.


8) After a prolonged interrogation and beating of Daiki, his captors conclude that his father must have not yet shared the location of the ninja hamlet.  Thus, very early the next morning, Juri travels to see Masahito.  She explains that she has his son and demands the location of the ninja hamlet.  She makes the following threats and promises:

 - If Masahito attempts to capture her to learn the location of his son, he will be killed.  She has men waiting outside watching for her to leave, and if she doesn't walk out very soon then his son will die.

 - If Masahito tries to track down his son, then the moment her men find that they have been discovered, the first thing they'll do is kill Daiki.

 - If Masahito attempts to warn the ninja that they're about to be attacked, then Daiki will die.  She will only release him if the attack goes as planned.

 - If Masahito tells her the location of the hamlet and cooperates as described, she has no further need for Daiki and she gives her word that he'll be released.

Masahito sees no way for his son to live other than cooperating fully, so he tells Juri the location of the hamlet.  Juri alerts her men to prepare for the attack.


9) That same morning, the PCs will try to track down Daiki.  They will be told that he's out running errands for the family.  If they try to track him down, they will easily discover all the places which he has recently been working on family business and go to (among other places) the warehouse which his family owns which just the other day he was responsible for overseeing the emptying of while loading up a caravan.

This is where he is being held; there aren't many places in the city where someone can be beaten and interrogated at length without being discovered, and this empty warehouse was the best place to look.  Juri counted on Masahito being smart enough to not look for his son, but didn't count on the PCs trying to track him down, unaware of his kidnapping.

The ninja guarding Daiki will lead the PCs into the warehouse and attack them, reasoning that they can kill the PCs without having to kill Daiki and that they can wait until nightfall to leave.  This will be an incredibly difficult fight, as the ninja are all highly trained, and the PCs are completely unfamiliar with their fighting style.


10) After rescuing Daiki, he will tell them everything about his capture, but won't tell them about his interrogation.  He fears that his father is involved in illicit activities, and doesn't want the PCs to link his family in any way to the village burnings.  He'll want to go home to his father immediately and will be telling the PCs all of this on the way there.

When Daiki gets home, his father whisks him away to rest and have his wounds tended.  He will try as hard as he can to have the PCs talk to him instead of his son.  Daiki isn't a very good liar and the PCs may have already detected that he's hiding something.  Masahito will reward them lavishly for rescuing his son.

Masahito will explain that he thought Daiki had slipped away during the night to go be rowdy (smoke opium or visit a prostitute or gamble, etc), which he's done in the past.  He says that he had to assign bodyguards to keep Daiki out of such trouble.  So when the PCs asked about where Daiki was, Masahito had simply said he was out on business to avoid any scandal.  He says he had not yet received any kind of random demand, though that's surely what the kidnappers were after.


11) That night, the ninja hamlet will be attacked, and the PCs will be woken to ride out with the magistrates.  However, this burning is incredibly odd.  The houses of the hamlet were deserted.  The attackers set fire to several of them with flaming arrows before realizing that no one was there, at which point they fled.  The whereabouts of the villagers is unknown, but other peasants had seen the residents as recently as a few days ago and had no reason to suspect that they would have gone anywhere.  This hamlet does fit the profile of having less men than women, but in all other ways appears to be a normal hamlet.  There is nothing unusual about the unburned homes or their possessions.

Masahito owns most of the land in that entire county, including all of the land in that hamlet.  However, the PCs must think to ask for this information, since no one else will.  (Obviously, Masahito warned the village about the attack after his son was rescued.)


CRACKING THE CASE
---------------------------
Seitarou will believe that this burning was conducted by Asao's men, whose whereabouts are still unknown.  It is too much of a coincidence, he argues, for this to have happened so soon after they disappeared so suspiciously.  Hantei Itsuro will be doubtful but open minded about the possibility and thinks there is probably no way to be sure.

Masahito and Daiki will both feign ignorance about all of this, and Masahito will claim that Daiki is still recovering and in no shape to be out and about, keeping his son locked up safe and sound at home.  Even if threatened with personal hardship (such as being convicted of some kind of crime), each of them will be willing the suffer the consequences for the good of their family.  The only way to get either one of them to confess is to threaten the other: Daiki will say everything he knows to spare his father, and Masahito will confess to everything to save his son.  However, the threat must be severe; either one would be willing to see the other do a little hard time for the good of the family.

Of course, at this point the PCs might be able to figure out what happened anyway, especially if they make the connection between kidnappings/murders and village burnings; this is the third time they've seen those two happen in such close proximity.  If they can approach Masahito already having figured out what's going on, he'll be much more likely to deal with them.

