
The PCs start the campaign at Kyuden Akito, the capitol of Hida Ryuden's domain.  They will return here between adventures to report their findings to Ryuden and to debate whichever of his other advisors disagree with their conclusions.

Here's a short list of the important people in Kyuden Akito and their positions:

Hida no Akito Ryuden (Akito daimyo) ->
Is undecided about who is probably behind the attacks and what to do about them.  Is soliciting advice from everyone, including the PCs, who may be able to sway him with persuasive arguments.

Bayushi no Bayushi Bao (Scorpion ambassador) ->
Bao knows that most Crab believe the Scorpion are behind the attacks and that he won't be able to persuade them otherwise.  He wants to avoid a war but knows that the decision is ultimately up to the Crab.  However, he's pushing for any sort of compromise that the Crab are willing to make, such as splitting the difference and having the Scorpion keep one of the towns while surrendering the other back to the Crab.  If asked about the Crab's responses, he'll probably remain neutral and say that he's sure the Crab know how to run their own clan.

Hida no Akito Toyoki (military advisor) ->
Wants to pull troops off the Wall AND bring in a significant number of Imperial magistrates/troops to help deal with the village burnings.  While he thinks the countryside needs some reinforcements, he wants to station the bulk of the troops from the wall on the borders so that if war breaks out, the Crab will be at an advantage.  He'll point out that troop levels on the Wall are much higher than needed right now, since they were raised a few years ago due to increased Shadowlands activity, which has since gone back down.

Hida no Akito Sakika (bandit hunter) ->
Wants to pull troops off of the Wall and station them in the countryside.  He'll also point out that troop levels on the Wall are higher than necessary, but he'll argue that the Crab already have sufficient troops on the border as they already outnumber the Scorpion troops on the border.  He'll also point out that bandit attacks are predictably on the rise due to the depleted troop levels in the bandit corridor.

Yasuki no Yasuki Genji (wealthy merchant) ->
One of the richest samurai merchants in the Yasuki family, Genjii has traveled to Kyuden Akito to lobby Ryuden and his advisors.  He'll point out that merchant caravan attacks have gone from a small handful per year to dozens over the last 8 months.  The problem is only getting worse, and he urges Ryuden to put troops back into the countryside, especially patrolling the roads.  What's more, he urges a quick end to the border conflict (through either diplomacy or war), because hundreds of wealthy merchant houses are no longer able to sell their wares in Scorpion lands due to increased tariffs.

Kuni no Kuni Moe (ambassador from the Kuni family) ->
Thinks that bloodspeakers are behind the attacks and that any reallocation of troops won't stop the problem.  Instead, argues that a firm commitment to ferreting out bloodspeakers is required.

Hida no Hida Aoto (ambassador from the Hida house) ->
While Hida Ryuden is responsible for enforcing the will of is daimyo Hida Kisada, Aoto is responsible for keeping track of what Ryuden does and reporting on him to Kisada.  Aoto's influence is therefore considerable, although he does not actually speak for Kisada.  Aoto is dubious about pulling anyone off of the Wall, since there was a 20 Goblin Winter just two years ago and they're still trying to keep the goblin population in check.  He believes that the Scorpion are behind the attacks and that putting more troops into the countryside will not help, but also feels that Ryuden has more than enough men to win a war against them.

Hida no Akito Naoko (political advisor) ->
Believes that the Scorpion are behind the attacks and emphasizes that losses of peasants or merchants are temporary while loss of land is permanent.  Wants to pull troops off the wall, but doesn't want to call in Imperial help since he thinks it'll make the Crab look weak.  In fact, he would prefer if everyone would portray the village burnings as no big deal (which statistically they aren't).

Hida no Akito Kotoha (minister of commerce) ->
Wants a diplomatic solution to the border disputes so that the troops can come home and deal with the problems here.  In particular, so many more merchants are being killed that it's becoming a serious problem for a lot of people.
