SETUP
-----
Just a few days after the first adventure, another village burning occurs.  This one also occurs in a domain that borders the Akito, directly to the south of the domain from the previous adventure.  If the PCs and/or Machiko managed to successfully discover the bloodspeaker coven in the previous adventure, they'll know that Jama Satoru told his coven that he was heading south to continue the attacks, which makes Machiko convinced that he's probably behind this new attack.  However, Machiko will believe that it's probably bloodspeakers even if she don't know about Satoru's plans to head south.

Ryuden sends the PCs to go with Machiko to investigate this matter.  If the bloodspeaker coven was uncovered in the previous adventure, he'll tell them to back her up and pressure the local governor to cooperate with her investigation.  Either way, he'll tell them to use their own    judgement and back her up only when they feel her methods are justified.

In fact, the attack fits the standard profile and has nothing to do with bloodspeakers.  The city near the burned hamlet is the home of the Gengobe merchant family, which Yue had married into.  Since Yue was married to Gengobe's son Hakuba and was well trusted by the Gengobe family, she knew the location of the Gengobe's ninja village, which was tortured out of her just before the start of the campaign.  Her killers then traveled here and simply continued their work.

However, there actually is a bloodspeaker coven in the city.  If Machiko is given free reign to tie up as many peasants as she wants, she will discover this coven within a few days.  At this point she will learn that it had nothing to do with the attack.  Because the theory of bloodspeakers being behind the attack depends heavily on local covens being involved, this will cast serious doubt on the theory.  In fact, Machiko herself will publicly state that she no longer believes that bloodspeakers are responsible for the majority of the attack and that Satoru was merely taking credit for the attacks to spread his own name.  Such a high-ranking Witch Hunter saying that she thinks the attacks is NOT bloodspeakers is remarkable, and will reinvigorate the policy debate at Kyuden Akito when the party returns, if the PCs desire to continue being involved with that.

Regardless, this domain is currently in a transitional state.  Last year Kabuto, governor of ___ city, overthrew and killed his daimyo and everyone loyal to the old regime.  This is not terribly uncommon; on average a governor somewhere in Rokugan successfully pulls this off about once every decade, although in that same time period you'd also expect to see at least one governor try and fail to seize power in this manner.  Presumably for every actual attempt, there are several governors plotting such a coup who never manage to accumulate enough support and resources to make their move.

This is a small domain with only three provinces, and Kabuto teamed up with Yoshi, one of the other provincial governors when he made his move.  His son Botan had married Yoshi's daughter, which cemented their alliance.  Now Kabuto is the daimyo and Botan rules as governor of ___ city.  In addition to support from Yoshi, Kabuto also had huge popular support from the peasants after convincing the provincial abbots and members of their orders of the righteousness of their cause.  He also was fortunate enough to have the Gengobe merchant family based in his city, who are among the largest mercenary hirers in northern Crab lands, and who also have enough contacts with other mercenary hirers to covertly bring in a huge number of fighting men to assist him.

While Kabuto's motives were anything but pure, he did have numerous legitimate complaints about the old daimyo: that he had squandered money on lavish vanities, that he overtaxed the lands and made life difficult for the peasants, that he sold too much food and thus had failed to keep a suitable reserve for some of the recent bad years that the domain's farmlands had suffered, etc.  These complaints led Kabuto and his family to see the coup as an honorable endeavor to right injustices which he had a duty to correct.  These complaints are also largely responsible for his success, since they made it much easier to secure support for the coup.

In particular, Kabuto did two things to secure popular support.  First, he promised abbot Kanshara that he'd build and fund a hospital which the monks could run to tend to the sick.  Second, he promised to declare waive all debts that the peasants had accumulated during the past few years of high taxes and bad land yield.

However, because Kabuto relied so heavily on the Gengobe family in his attempt to take power, they have been allowed to collect the debts owed to them by the peasants of the city and surrounding countryside.  As possibly the largest moneylender in the domain, this heavily undermines Kabuto's promise, so they cannot do this publicly.  Instead, governor Botan and his retainers have simply chosen to look the other way when they hear of the Gengobe doing such things.  Abbot Kanshara has petitioned the governor to stop this behavior.  However, he believes that while the governor claims to be looking into the matter, he's probably too close to the Gengobe family to be willing to make them stop.


MAJOR CHARACTERS
----------------
Botan and Chikasa ->
    Botan is Kabuto's son and governor of ___ city.  Chikasa is his minister of justice.  Both will be highly reluctant to cooperate with Machiko since it's so costly to disrupt the city so much, but can be bullied into going along with it all.  This will be fairly easy if the PCs found bloodspeakers in the previous adventure; if not then it will take either a lot of convincing/threatening, or the PCs will have to go over his head and involve an Imperial magistrate.  The PCs can also point out that Imperial magistrates frown on coups regardless of the reasons and that it's unlikely that any Imperial magistrate would side with Botan over Machiko.
    Both Botan and Chikasa will claim to be looking into the matter of debts, and will further claim that no one they've talked to has actually said that anyone is pressuring them to pay back debts.  In fact this is true, although the way that Chikasa asked the questions made it clear what answer he wanted to hear.  He'll also claim that it's strictly a matter of local concern and take umbrage if the PCs try to get too involved.

Gengobe and Hakuba ->
    They are both very upset at Yue's death and will thank the PCs profusely for their part in uncovering the bloodspeakers in the previous adventure.  Although they know what really happened to Yue, they will act as if they believe that it was bloodspeakers, and argue to the PCs that it must have been, since Yue was well known and tortured before she died.  The PCs probably have talked to Machiko about this, who doesn't believe that Yue's died at the hands of bloodspeakers since her kidnapping doesn't fit the profile.
    However, Gengobe and Hakuba will strongly argue against anything but bloodspeakers.  If the PCs ask about other enemies, they'll say that the only enemies they might have would be anyone part of the old regime, but that almost all such people are dead, and that it wouldn't make sense for them to kill Yue anyway.  They'll strongly discourage the PCs from pursuing the matter, and if the PCs say that they're inclined to look into things further, Gengobe will explicitly ask them not to, saying he'd prefer to handle things himself.

Kanshara ->
    The provincial abbot who administrates the temple at ___ city and is ultimately responsible for the surrounding lands.  He reluctantly supported Kabuto's coup and does feel that things have improved for the peasants since Kabuto took power.  However, he's somewhat ambivalent about Botan's willingness to essentially break their promise by allowing the Gengobe to collect debts.  Despite this, he won't badmouth Botan, since he wants continued support for his temple and hospital.  However, perceptive and skillful PCs may discern how he really feels.  Regardless, he can tell them the names of several peasants in the city who are being pressured to pay back money they owe, as well as many in the countryside.

Ito ->
    The ronin from the last adventure, Ito is in the city waiting for another assignment from the Gengobe family.  He'll want to be helpful to the PCs, but he really doesn't know or care about the debt collection thing.  The PCs will easily be able to find him if they look, and they might bump into him while talking to the Gengobe anyway.


EVENTS
------
The PCs will likely start the adventure by checking out the site of the attack.  Their findings will match those of the original investigators; that this fit the profile perfectly and that there was no sign of anything supernatural.  Machiko will be unconvinced and say they need to find the bloodspeakers in the city to be sure.

Machiko will then ask the PCs to demand cooperation from the governor.  The PCs will have to make some effort since the governor will resist the idea, but with a few good rolls and/or well placed threats/arguments, they should be able to make this happen without much difficulty.

After this, she'll go to work.  While she's doing that, she'll ask the PCs to help her by looking into the sick and poor of the city, starting with the local hospital.  After the last adventure, the PCs will understand how important this can be.

Kanshara the abbot will talk to them and say that no one has made any miraculous recoveries that he knows about.  However, he will ask them to look into the matter of the debts.

If the PCs don't seek out the Gengobe family, they'll be approached by them, to thank them for investigating Yue's murder.  Gengobe will present them with some expensive gifts and/or money to show his appreciation.  However, if Gengobe feels that the PCs are likely to continue investigating Yue's murder, he will try to have them killed.

Hakuba will bring in his debt collection squad and tell them that the PCs are investigating the debts.  He'll tell them to not let this deter them and to do whatever is necessary to make sure that the PCs don't interfere with things.  The debt collectors will know what this means and will track down and attack the PCs in the streets of the city.  When defeated, they'll say what happened.

Hakuba will deny having wanted to kill the PCs, and say that he merely wanted them to keep collecting debts without worrying about the PCs; this is arguably consistent with the statements he made to those men.  Chikasa will promise to give these men an extremely harsh sentence and will promise to stop the Gengobe family from collecting on further debts.  However, he will have no interest in punishing Hakuba, who he believes is innocent.

Around this time, Machiko will be successful in finding the members of the city's bloodspeaker coven.  She'll want to return to Kyuden Akito immediately to report on her findings, since she now believes that Satoru's attack was unconnected with the rest, and that bloodspeakers are not responsible for the regular attacks.  She'll soon leave with or without the PCs, who will probably have little reason to stay at this point.
