The Hida family is the second largest samurai family in the Empire, with a population of 175,000 samurai spread across about 60 domains.  Hida Kisada rules the family from the south, close to the great Kaiu Wall that separates the Empire from the Shadowlands.  However, because of the size of Crab lands, another powerful daimyo named Hida no Akito Ryuden has command of Crab troops in the north, in particular along border with the Scorpion clan.

Because the Crab have the extraordinary problem of needing to deal with the Shadowlands in the south while still defending their borders to the north and east, they assign thousands of bushi from the interior of the clan to both the Wall and to their borders.  Like an actual crab, the clan presents a hardened shell with a soft interior.  This results in a much higher bandit population than in most other clans, and those who hunt such criminals often refer to this area as the "bandit corridor".

About 8 months before the start of this campaign, two border disputes broke out between the Crab and the Scorpion at the far west and far southeast ends of their mutual border.  Shortly before taxes were to be collected, Scorpion troops entered Crab land and started taxing several small villages.  While the incursion was relatively minor, the Crab immediately responded by sending out their own troops to intercept the Scorpion as soon as this was discovered.  The Scorpion were prepared for this and counterattacked in far greater numbers than anticipated, taking one town from each of the domains where this occurred.  (Reminder: every domain has about 36 towns, each of which has about 6 small villages within its sphere of influence.)

While the Crab were organizing a counteroffensive, Bayushi no Bayushi Karasu, the Scorpion general who had coordinated these attacks, stepped forward with a challenge.  He claimed that the Scorpion had targeted these two towns specifically because the magistrates there had been incompetent and corrupt, neglecting their duties to the peasants, and that Scorpion troops frequently had to arbitrate disputes and hunt for bandits in that domain due to the neglect of Crab officials.  Because the Scorpion were already paying for much of the upkeep of this land, Karasu argued that the Scorpion had a valid claim to the land and that their taxation and subsequent military response to the Crab's attack on them was justified.

However, Karasu was willing to order a complete withdrawal of troops and concede all future claims to that land if a Crab bushi was able to defeat him in an iaijutsu duel.  However, if the Crab accepted his challenge, they would agree to acknowledge the legitimacy of the Scorpion claim for a period of one year.  After that time, the Crab could choose to go to war over the land, abandon all claims to it, or come to an agreement with the Scorpion.

The Crab accepted, fronting their best duelist.  Although the duel was very close, Karasu ultimately won, and thus the Scorpion have stationed thousands of troops around each of the two disputed towns.  And so the Crab and Scorpion have spent the months since then negotiating.  While the Crab could definitely defeat the Scorpion if they are willing to commit the resources, there's much debate over whether this paltry amount of land is worth sacrificing thousands of troops.

However, the Crab are currently facing another problem; almost three months ago a small hamlet in the bandit corridor was attacked in the middle of the night.  There were no survivors, and the farmhouses were burned to the ground, with the bodies thrown inside.  The attack was carried out with military precision by an estimated 15-25 attackers.

A few weeks later, exactly the same thing happened in a neighboring domain.  A few weeks after that, it happened again.  The motivation for these attacks is completely a mystery; bandits never do this sort of thing because there's little profit and a huge amount of risk associated with such an attack.  Bloodspeakers occasionally attack small hamlets in this manner, but always to spread their own name, and no one took responsibility for these attacks.  Man-eating ogres often attack small settlements, but would have a hard time getting dozens of humans to help them do it.

Most of the Crab clan is convinced that the Scorpion clan is responsible for these attacks.  The Crab have had to pull even more troops out of the interior of their lands to put them on the border, and perhaps the Scorpion hope to pressure them to reassign some of those troops from the border to track down those responsible for the attacks.  The Scorpion deny this, and point out that even if they were dishonorable enough to do such a thing, the consequences for getting caught would be far worse than what they stand to gain.

Unfortunately, not only have these attacks continued, they've also spawned copycats.  In addition to the two additional attacks that fit this profile (for a total of five), there have been two attacks from man-eating ogres who apparently learned of what was happening and decided to join in.  Even worse, a bloodspeaker named Satoru recently conducted a similar attack using oni and zombies and claimed credit for the other attacks as well.

The hamlets involved are very small, with a population of around 50.  The only thing that stands out is that with the exception of the ogre attacks, every hamlet has been only a few miles from a large city.  Attackers trying to avoid getting caught would be much safer attacking hamlets out in the countryside, far away from cities with hundreds of bushi ready to respond to smoke on the horizon.  So this is puzzling.

The losses to the Crab are minimal; the average domain has over a thousand of these tiny hamlets.  However, the populace is growing increasingly afraid, and the Crab will not tolerate looking weak by failing to bring these criminals to justice.  However, there's much debate about how to best handle the matter.

Some of the PCs have met Hida Ryuden in the past, and he's been impressed with their skills.  He's currently soliciting advice on how to respond to the problems the Crab are facing.  He needs to decide whether to pull troops off the wall, whether to reinforce the borders, whether to spread troops across the bandit corridor, etc.  While he has many advisors feeding him information and suggestions, he also wants some outside advice.

Over the course of this campaign, the PCs will act as advisors for Hida Ryuden, traveling to places of note and reporting their findings and suggestions to him.
