SETUP
-----------
Two of the village attacks so far have been perpetrated by a small
band of man-eating ogres.  The PCs get word that these ogres have
struck again, this time in a much bolder attack.  The local daimyo has
requested a large number of troops to help deal with this problem.
Hida Ryuden wants the PCs to assess the situation and send a letter
back saying whether they thought additional men were needed.  If more
men are needed, he wants them to explain whether the need is limited
to this specific case or if he should assign troops to domains
throughout the bandit corridor.


TIMELINE
---------------
7 days ago:
   Hida no Fumio Taka, the county magistrate of Onomachi, visits the
village of Kokin Mura to deal with a heated rent dispute.  While in
the village, 6 ogres attacked and killed the magistrate and the bushi
with him.  Two of the ogres spoke human language, and told the
villagers that the ogres were their new bosses and they'd die if they
resisted.  The ogres carried off the magistrate and his bushi as well
as some of the town ashigaru, presumably to eat them.

6 days ago:
   Hida no Fumio Yuichi, the town's ogre hunter, arrives at Onomachi
with several dozen mounted bushi.  They spend the day doing a sweep of
the countryside, especially the hills near Kokin Mura, hoping to find
the ogres.  They turn up nothing.

5 days ago:
   Yuichi has a fast horse posted at every village in the tri-county
area, as well as having more bushi posted at the two neighboring
towns; an ashigaru at each location is instructed to ride to Onomachi
to fetch the bushi.  Yuichi and his most skilled hunters begin making
trips to hunt these ogres.
   Meanwhile, Hida no Fumio Kosara is appointed acting county
magistrate for Onomachi along with several dozen more bushi.

4 days ago:
   Word of the ogre attack reaches Kyuden Akito late in the day.
   Meanwhile, Kuni Shimura departs from his post in the neighboring
domain after hearing about the attack, fearing that bloodspeakers may
be involved, due to the fact that a well-known public figure was
abducted.
   Meanwhile, Jama Satoru hears about the attack and also sets off
for Onomachi County (aka the OC), hoping for the opportunity to spread
his name.

2 days ago:
   In continuing his hunt for ogres, Yuichi widens his search area to
the surrounding villages, specifically the town of Kingome Mura.
   Shimura arrives at Onomachi and begins feeling out the town.

Current day:
   The PCs arrive in Onomachi in the evening.


OGRE HUNTING
-------------------------
Hida Yuichi follows the standard ogre hunter procedures perfectly.
Here's an explanation of what ogre hunting typically involves.

Initially Yuichi used a large number of mounted bushi to make a sweep
of the countryside looking for obvious signs of ogres.  These men both
looked for tracks and talked to peasants from the countryside; the
local ashigaru were instructed to make rounds asking absolutely
everyone if anyone had any useful information.  This could be either
direct ogre sightings or reports of theft for which ogres may have
been responsible.

Afterwards Yuichi and several of his most talented hunters began going
out individually.  A lone tracker is often more effective at finding
ogres, since a large group of bushi are easy to spot and ogres will
run and/or hide when they see them coming.  Individual hunters can
both look for signs of ogres (waste, tracks, signs of an improvised
sleeping area, etc) and quietly search areas where ogres may be hiding
or passing through.

Of course, a lone hunter is typically not able to singlehandedly
defeat an ogre, much less a mated pair of ogres.  This makes being
discovered especially dangerous.  Hunters work out of a base of
operations, usually a nearby village or hamlet, and return there to
get reinforcements as soon as they discover where an ogre is staying.

Additionally, hunters typically check in with their base of operations
at pre-agreed-upon times one to three times per day.  If they ever
fail to check in, then reinforcements are dispatched to wherever they
were hunting to kill the ogre that probably found them.

While hunters work alone, multiple hunters will often search the same
area and coordinate with each other; in cases where many hunters are
tracking a single ogre, there may be enough hunters to defeat the ogre
if one of them is discovered and can alert the others through sounding
a horn and making it to a fallback point.


CHARACTERS
----------------------
Hida no Fumio Yuichi ->
   The ogre hunter for the Fumio house.  Yuichi was prepared for
ogres but not bloodspeakers, and thus is killed at the beginning of
this adventure by Jama Satoru.

Kuni no Kuni Shimura ->
   The witch hunter for this area of Crab lands.  Shimura is
suspicious of the fact that a well known public figure was abducted.
While it's very rare of bloodspeakers to work with ogres, it's not
unheard of, and Shimura wants to know whether a local bloodspeaker
coven exists in Onomachi.
   While Shimura shares the intense dedication of most all Witch
Hunters, he lacks Machiko's fanaticism.  He's more understanding about
the difficulties that magistrates, governors, and daimyo face, and
understands that they have many concerns other than catching
bloodspeakers.  However, like any Witch Hunter, he's constantly
testing his boundaries and tries to do as much as possible to catch
bloodspeakers whenever he can.

Hida no Fumio Kosara ->
   The acting county magistrate for Onomachi, it's unndetermined
whether Kosara will be given this position permanently.  Kosara
believes that by showing strong leadership and performing his job well
he may impress the governor enough to keep the job.  Kosara will not
bargain with the PCs for an endorsement, since he considers it wrong
to make a policy decision for personal gain.
   Kosara is the younger brother of Hida Motoshi from the last
adventure; they are both from a wealthy and well-respected lineage,
which is why they both have such high-ranking positions.  Motoshi will
have written his family to tell them what happened in the previous
adventure, and so Kosara will know of their actions.  Depending on
what they did, he will either be very impressed with them or
prejudiced against them.

Emiho ->
   Runs the stables in Kingome Mura.  She is a 25 year old widow with
one living 9-year-old son.  She's very introverted and thus is
somewhat of a recluse, preferring the company of animals; in addition
to the horses in her stable, she keeps several pets.

Mariya + Ikkaku ->
   Husband and wife who run the village inn and general store,
respectively.  The used to only own the inn, but many years ago they
bought the general store from its previous owner.  They want to buy
the stables as well, which is very close to their inn and very
profitable.

Taishuu ->
   Salt merchant who's passing through.  Like many merchants, he
usually does business in Ryoko Owari, but is now trying his hand in
Crane lands.  Fortunately, salt merchants don't seem to be killing
each other due to this new competition, so he has no idea about any
kind of gang war.

Natsuhi ->
   Tea merchant from another domain to the northwest of the Fumio
domain.  His family usually sells their wares in Ryoko Owari, but due
to the recent troubles and tariffs, he's making a trip into Crane
lands.  He will be murdered shortly after the start of the adventure.

Nobumi ->
   Tea merchant from the Misha family in Fumio lands.  Her family
discovered that Natsuhi was passing through and sent her after him
with some armed men with the intention of waylaying him on the road
and making it look like bandits, then stealing his tea and selling it
as their own on the trip.


EVENTS
-------------
When the PCs arrive at Onomachi, Kuni Shimura will approach them
wanting their help.  Because of the abduction of the former county
magistrate, Shimura believes that there might be bloodspeakers in
Onomachi and wants permission to perform prolonged interrogations on
specifically high-risk peasants.  In other words, while he's not
pushing for tying up the entire town, he'd like to go after anyone who
remotely fits the profile possibly being a bloodspeaker.

Kosara is inclined to cooperate somewhat, but objects to the scope of
Shimura's proposal.  Shimura wants to tie up about one fifth of the
population of the town, which Kosara sees as extreme, especially
considering that there's absolutely no evidence of bloodspeakers and
man-eating ogres were clearly behind the attack.  Kosara would be okay
with Shimura interrogating a few dozen townfolk, but anything more
than that seems overly extreme and disruptive.

Shimura understands Kosara's objections, but still wants to target as
many peasants as possible.  He asks the PCs to help him put pressure
on Kosara to be more flexible.  Depending on the PCs' history with
Machiko, they might be inclined to help or hinder Shimura.  Kosara can
be swayed somewhat with persuasive arguments, but will react badly if
the PCs try to put political pressure on him or try to influence him
with promises of political support, which he considers dishonorable.

Meanwhile, Kosara will urge the PCs to recommend to Ryuden that the
area be given more troops.  However, he will scrupulously avoid
discussion of any kind of quid-pro-quo on the issue, and will mainly
try to convince the PCs through persuasive arguments.  In particular,
he will urge them to speak with Yuichi, explaining that Yuichi can
explain the benefit of the men and the dangers of the ogres far better
than Kosara himself ever could.

The PCs will thus be sent to meet with Yuichi early the following
morning in Kingome Mura where he's staying.  Shortly after they arrive
in town, all of the animals in the stable will be let free and bolt.
The PCs will be alerted immediately as everyone scrambles to get their
horses back.  While the PCs are out looking for the horses, they will
be attacked by Oni no Yuichi.

It turns out that Yuichi was killed during the night and his name used
to create an oni, which bore both his name and the name of Jama
Satoru.  Shimura and Kosara arrive soon afterwards with a lot of men
to help track down Satoru.  Kosara asks the PCs to stay behind, since
they're wounded from their fight and their presence will help calm the
villagers, who want to know that they are in good hands.  Shimura asks
them to investigate around town to see whether anything suspicious had
occurred recently.

Mariya the innkeeper will see this as an opportunity to discredit
Emiho the stable owner.  She speaks with the three merchants who had
animals at the stable and all of their men and asks them leading
questions.  In particular, she claims that other guests talked about
having funny feelings while in the stables, and that some of them
thought they detected a very odd smell.  Having just learned of an oni
attack, many of the guests will unconsciously insert these new facts
into their memories.  ("You know, now that you mention it, I DID smell
something odd.  I didn't think much of it at the time, but now...")

If questioned herself, Mariya will feign sympathy for Emiho and talk
about how difficult her life must be, since her husband died so
suddenly last year.  She'll also talk about Emiho being a recluse and
not really fitting in with other villagers.  Finally, she'll pretend
to be reluctant to gossip, but if pressed she'll discus how Emiho's
husband was abusive and a drinker that she's probably better off
without him.

It's possible for the PCs to discover that Mariya is the source of
these rumors, but only if they do some detailed investigations.  By
spreading these rumors, Mariya has arguably committed a very serious
crime, by interfering with the bloodspeaker investigation.  However,
she'll argue that she fabricated nothing and it will be difficult to
prove otherwise.  If the matter is brought to Kosara, his inclination
will be for Mariya to pay an enormous fine, 100% of which would be
awarded to Emiho for the potential damage to her reputation.

Emiho herself was in her house when the animals were let free.
Although her house is directly next to the stables, she didn't see or
hear anything until the animals all bolted, and she believes
(correctly) that supernatural forces were at work in letting them go.
As for Emiho's past, it's true that her husband died suddenly last
year, but this was from a virulent flu that killed several villagers.

That evening, Nobumi will visit Natsuhi's room and say she wants to
discuss some business.  She'll be flirtatious enough to lead him on,
but also bring up the possibility of buying his tea.  She says she'd
like to discuss it over some fine wine, and that the innkeeper has
said that the best wine in the village is sold at the general store.
She tell him that if she's interested in what she has to offer, he
should go ahead to the general store and pick out a nice bottle of
wine while she gets changed before meeting him there.

He heads out almost immediately, and she hurries out after him to
catch him on the way.  After she catches up to him, she distracts him
and then stabs him in the back and carves the name of Jama Satoru onto
his chest with the knife, then heads over to the general store.  Once
there she asks Ikkaku the proprietor whether Natsuhi has left already
and expresses dismay when he says that Natsuhi hasn't shown up at all.
 She says she'll wait for him in the hopes that he'll want to meet her
and then stays there.

The body will soon be discovered by a peasant family on their way
home.  The PCs are alerted immediately.  Here are ways in which they
can crack Nobumi's story if they investigate especially well:

 - Nobumi will claim that it took her quite some time to get changed.
However, in fact she left shortly after Natsuhi so as to catch up with
him, and one of Natsuhi's men saw her leave only a few minutes after
him, rather than the 15-20 minutes that Nobumi claims.  Natsuhi's men
didn't find this odd, since they assumed that Satoru killed their
employer and don't even suspect Nobumi.

 - The reason why Nobumi knew Satoru's name is that she asked the eta
who burned the remains of Oni no Yuichi.  If the PCs think to ask
those eta whether anyone talked to them, they'll explain that Nobumi
paid them for a drawing of the bloodspeaker's name.  She claimed that
she simply wanted to know it so that if this bloodspeaker ever struck
again within this domain that she'd know that it was the same one.
She claimed to be worried that he might track down some or all of the
other well-known visitors to this town, and that this information
could later help set her mind at ease.

- Nobumi did talk to Mariya about wine, but in fact all Mariya said is
that the general store did sell good wine.  In fact, their best wines
are sold both at the inn and general store, making their proposed
rendezvous unnecessary.  Mariya will assume that this was simply a
misunderstanding, which is what Nobumi will claim if asked.

If the PCs really press her on this and come to the point where it's
clear they believe or suspect her of the murder, she'll have her men
attack them.  The PCs will already be wounded from their fight against
the oni, but they should still be able to win this fight.  However,
one thing should be noteworthy; her most senior and trusted man is an
extremely capable fighter; he's actually a ninja that works for her
family.  The only really unusual thing he can do is that the TN to hit
him is 35.  He also has the initiative ability and the attack boosting
ability, so he'll act early and hit hard.  He will also refuse to
surrender even if the others do and the PCs will be forced to kill him
because he won't stand down.

Nobumi will still deny having committed murder and will claim she
attacked the PCs to protect her reputation.  She'll say she was
planning a romantic tryst with Natsuhi (which is what his men believed
was happening) and she was afraid that she would look like a slut to
everyone if the PCs' ridiculous murder accusations were made public,
even after they were debunked.  Kosara and Shimura will both find this
argument unpersuasive and she'll be quickly executed; bloodspeaker
investigations are a notable exception to the rule that wealthy
merchants can usually get away with light sentences even when they're
caught.
