
Timeline:

Within the last few months:
    A bloodspeaker named Jama Satoru moves into the city working as an eta.  To build a coven, he identifies local peasants (mostly eta and servants) who are sick and/or who have sick relatives, offers to heal their relatives and give them powers, and draws them into his world.  He's extremely charismatic and is extremely helpful with both power and money, and asks for very little.  

10 days ago:
    In the middle of the night, a bloodspeaker Satoru attacks a hamlet near the city and kills most of the peasants living there.  He first forces his coven to help him summon a powerful oni, then leaves the city and uses it to kill some peasants and set fire to their homes.  He raises the dead peasants as zombies and repeats the process.  Eventually he sends the zombies into the countryside to attack the surrounding peasants, and forcing the samurai to chase them down and kill them.

9 days ago:
    The day after the night of the attack, Yue appears in the city with a bodyguard.  She has arrived a day early and mentions that she's waiting to meet up with more guards.
    Kuni Machiko arrives in the city this evening and begins investigating.
    That night, a keg of sake at the inn where Yue was staying is drugged with a sleeping drug by a ninja.  Yue and her bodyguard are unable to defend themselves; the bodyguard is killed in his sleep and Yue is abducted and taken away from the inn.  Her money and papers are also stolen.  She's woken and beaten/tortured until she reveals the location of the hamlet where the ninja working for the Gengobe family live, then she's killed.

8 days ago:
    Ito and several other wave men arrive in the city to meet up with Yue.  As armed men entering the city so soon after an attack, they are stripped of their weapons and held under suspicion of being involved in the village burning and/or being complicit in Yue's murder, especially since they seemed to be late to arrive.
    Machiko interrogates every eta in the city, including binding their hands and trying to determine whether any of them are bloodspeakers.  She discovers that one eta is missing and that he apparently arrived in the city only a few months ago, which is very unusual.  She argues with the governor that she should be given broader powers, especially to tie up all of the eta and to interrogate every servant in the city, but the governor refuses until further conventional investigation provides a more compelling reason.

7 days ago:
    Machiko continues to investigate in the city, including looking into Ito and his companions by both interrogating them and tying them up for hours and hanging them upside down from tree branches before trying to detect any Shadowlands taint within them.  She also looks into Yue's murder, but eventually dismisses it as non bloodspeaker related due to both timing and circumstances.  She interrogates the apothecary Yuugi and the monk Chion about sickness in the city and both of them tell her that there haven't been any suspicious deaths, sicknesses, or recoveries lately.
    Machiko's investigations have so far turned up very little and she once again petitions the governor for permission to take a firmer hand, and is once again denied.  The governor isn't convinced that there are any bloodspeakers in the city.

6 days ago:
    Machiko rides to the domain's capitol to ask the daimyo to override the governor's decision, but he sides with the governor.  Machiko then asks the domain's Imperial magistrate (Seppun Takeaki) to override the daimyo.  Takeaki is reluctant, but willing to look into the matter himself and open to the idea of possibly granting Machiko broader powers.
    Having been freed, Ito and company start looking into Yue's murder.  Finding that the inn was drugged, the investigate the local apothecary.  They show up at his store and threaten him and interrogate him about Yue's death.  He denies everything and summons the magistrates and has them arrested again.

5 days ago:
    Machiko and Takeaki return to the city and investigate further.  Takeaki is unconvinced and unwilling to overrule the governor/daimyo based on the current evidence of bloodspeaker activity within the city.  However, he does push to allow her to more freely interrogate servants, but doesn't allow the binding their hands during interrogations, considering that unwarranted given the current level of evidence.

4 days ago:
    Machiko continues her investigation of the servants and hears reports of chanting and strange noises the night of the burning.  However, the governor and Takeaki both remain strongly against her taking stronger measures.
    Meanwhile, Ito and his friends are freed once again after having been locked up for a few days.  Down on his luck, Ito goes to a local gambling den and bets aggressively; the last time he had such a run of bad luck he did the same thing and won a lot of money.  This time he lost at a game of dice.  Infuriated, he grabbed the man who'd beaten him and searched his pockets only to discover that the man had another set of dice in a pocket.  Claiming that they were probably loaded and that the man was probably a cheater, Ito took his money back along with all of the money that this man had brought.  The bouncers tried to intervene, but Ito and his men trounced all of them despite being unarmed.  The magistrates were summoned and Ito managed to bribe them to not confiscate all of the money he'd taken.  However, he and his men were arrested again and told that they'd not be let go until Yue's family showed up to claim her ashes.  At this point they'd be forced to leave the city forever.
    While Ito was at the gambling den, he learned that Yuuki the apothecary regularly visits the gambling den and is good friends with the owner.  Unfortunately, Ito cannot look into this further since he can no longer move freely around the city.

3 days ago:
    Fed up with being blocked at every turn, Machiko returns to Kyuden Akito to attempt to get Hida Ryuden to overrule the locals.  However, when she learns that the latest burning has kicked off a policy debate about granting Witch Hunters broader powers and freer reign, she stays around in an attempt to influence Ryuden and other prominent officials.


Characters:

Ito ->
    Ito is a loudmouthed, troublemaking ronin.  He was originally a very skilled bushi who'd slept with the daughter of the daimyo.  He was stripped of his rank and forced to become a ronin when his indiscretion was discovered.  Since then he's worked as a mercenary for the Gengobe merchant family.  He tried to regain his position as a Crab bushi two years ago during the 20 goblin winter, but only managed to bring back 18 goblin heads.
    Ito knows that he was supposed to meet with Yue to get a job involving some travel north into Scorpion lands, but he doesn't know the details.  He knows that he and she would also meet up with some other wave men; he understood that they'd also arrive in this city, but since they haven't arrived, he figures that they were going to meet up with them elsewhere.  He doesn't know the details of the job and has just returned from running supplies to the Kaiu Wall.
    Ito really liked Yue, who he says was a very special lady and desperately wants to avenge her death.  He'll beg the PCs to get involved and tells them about Yuuki the apothecary being potentially very sketchy and hanging out with the owner of the local gambling house.  He'll both promise to owe them big himself and point out that the Gengobe would be very financially grateful if they could bring Yue's killer to justice.

Kuni no Kuni Machiko ->
    Machiko is an obsessive Witch Hunter, filled with the conviction that the worst thing that could come from an investigation is to let a bloodspeaker get away.  She believes firmly that bloodspeakers are behind the attacks, especially since Satoru has taken credit for being involved in the others.  She will be respectful towards the PCs and dismissive towards the concerns of the governor, pointing out that governors and daimyo never want to believe that they have a bloodspeaker problem.  She'll constantly be testing her boundaries by seeing how much she can get away with in her investigating, and constantly pushing the PCs to support her.  However, Machiko is extremely scrupulous and will be anything but completely honest about her investigations; she'll never manufacture or exaggerate evidence of bloodspeaker activity.

Yuuki ->
    As the local apothecary, Yuuki also deals in illegal opium, which he sells through his friend Issei, the owner of the local gambling den.  Yuuki will initially deny ever having been to the local gambling den.  If caught in this lie, he'll claim he's only been a few times.  If caught in that, he'll say that he only casually gambles.  If caught in that, he'll say that he never gambles for very much and doesn't know Issei that well.
    He will be quick the offer the PCs a bribe to stop investigating him.  If the PCs are too forward or make any inappropriate threats towards him, then Yuuki will call the local magistrates himself to get them off his back.  However, if they put too much legal pressure on him and threaten to arrest him without crossing any lines, he'll crack and admit to being involved in opium dealing.
    Yuuki knows nothing about Yue's death, but will direct the PCs towards Chion the monk, who also deals in medicines.  However, he probably won't do this until the PCs put enough pressure on him to make him feel threatened.

Issei ->
    The owner of the local gambling house, which is also a cheap restaurant and bar.  He doesn't know that Yuuki is denying ever having been here, so he will admit that Yuuki comes here.  However, he'll be reluctant to talk to the PCs at all and must be forced into it with legal threats.  He will also be quick to offer them a bribe, as well as free food and drink.  If pressed, he'll admit that Yuuki is a good friend and will say nice things about him.  He won't admit to any opium dealing and genuinely doesn't know anything about Yue.

Hida no Kitanaka Tesuho ->
    The governor of the city, she believes in ruling with a firm but gentle touch.  She is loath to treat her citizens badly, and especially hates the idea of tying everyone up for hours, thus subjecting them to humiliating and physically draining conditions.  She also believes that evidence for bloodspeaker activity in the city is nonexistent; at best Satoru might have spent some time here in preparation for the burning, but there's no evidence that he had formed a coven.
    She'll point out that it's hard to rule effectively when you're hated and/or resented by your citizens.  And dragging people out of their homes and tying them up for hours pretty much ensures that.  Also, it's bad for the city because so much work isn't getting done.  Further, those people will miss a day of wages, which for many of them will be a hardship.  Plus, since even Machiko admits that her detection isn't foolproof, the whole thing might be fruitless even if there were somehow bloodspeakers in the city.
    Tesuho will point out to the PCs that Machiko seems irrationally convinced that bloodspeakers are in the city.  In fact, she'll point out that it seems as if nothing will convince Machiko otherwise; when talked to about the matter, Machiko interprets any lack of evidence as all the more reason to take firmer measures.  Thus, it's not good to listen much to her, since she doesn't have an open mind.

Chion ->
    Chion is the somewhat-corrupt local abbot.  He doesn't outright steal, but he lives a much more comfortable life with his temple's money than is usually considered proper.  He's also somewhat greedy and tries to profit from selling medicines, instead of merely recouping his expenses as he's supposed to.  He's also not as involved in the community as he should be and doesn't reach out or become involved in the lives of the citizenry unless he himself has been approached.
    Chion used to supply medicine for migraines to a bunch of local peasants.  However, within the last few months, a bunch of them suddenly stopped buying from him.  He assumed that'd all died, although in fact they'd been healed by Jama Satoru.  Thus, he ended up with a lot of this medicine, far more than is legal to keep on hand.  However, he decided to keep it rather than trying to sell it back at a loss, assuming that he'd eventually be able to unload it.
    The day of Yue's death, a man came to him claiming to be a traveling merchant.  He said that his wife suffered from migraines and wanted to buy a lot of headache medicine.  Chion agreed and unloaded his stock at a nice profit.  When he discovered the circumstances of Yue's death, he was afraid of coming forward, since he'd have to admit to holding and selling an illegal amount of this drug.  He even lied to Machiko by saying that he didn't know anything about it.  In fact, he even lied by saying that there hadn't been any rash of deaths or illnesses lately, since that might lead to some followup questions that would uncover his stack of this drug.


Events of the adventure:

The PCs begin the campaign in Kyuden Akito by participating in the policy debate over the burnings.  They're soon asked to travel back to the city with Machiko to investigate and asses the situation there.  Ryuden wants to see progress and doesn't care how much it interferes with the normal operations of the city, but doesn't trust Machiko enough to give her a free hand.  Thus, he tells the PCs to strongarm the locals whenever they feel it's good to back up Machiko, but to show restraint if/when they feel the evidence is thin.  He also wants their input on whether this attack is related to the others; the Witch Hunters seem certain that bloodspeakers are behind the burnings, but he feels that they always see bloodspeakers everywhere and wants an outside opinion.

The PCs must decide whether to push to allow Machiko freer reign or to try to block her.  Machiko will push hard to be allowed to tie up all of the eta, but will settle at first for being allowed to bind the hands of the servants.  Interrogating servants in this manner will yield nothing, and if she's allowed to do that then she'll go back to pushing for tying up the eta.  If allowed to do that, then she will successfully detect the Taint in at least one coven member and from there will identify everyone in the coven.

However, the PCs have a pretty good chance of finding the coven members before she does.  If they investigate Yue's death then they'll talk to Yuuki, who will direct them to Chion.  If they can pressure him enough and/or determine that he's lying, then he'll confess to having unknowingly sold the medicine to Yue's killer.  He'll complain that it's not his fault that so many peasants died so suddenly, leaving him with this big stash of medicine.  This can lead the PCs to talk to the family members of those who'd had the migraines in the first place.

Jama Satoru was worried about his coven coming forward and left an oni behind to watch over them.  If the PCs start to question a coven member and it looks like it might lead somewhere, then the oni will materialize and immediately kill the coven member, then attack the PCs, all the while chanting the same of Jama Satoru.

There is one additional conflict which can happen in this adventure.  Before telling the PCs what he knows, Chion will try to get them to agree to let the governor sentence him rather than leaving him to Machiko, of whom he's terrified.  However, Machiko will want Chion executed; by lying to her he has aided bloodspeakers and deserves a death sentence.  If the PCs have promised to let Chion be sentenced by the governor then they'll be forced to side against Machiko in this.  This will need to be settled by an Imperial magistrate; if Chion is considered to have simply committed a local crime (his involvement in Yue's murder) then it's up to the governor to sentence him.  If he's considered to have impeded a Witch Hunter investigation, then Machiko can do whatever she likes with him.  Whatever Takeaki decides, the losers will certainly appeal to Hantei Itsuro, and the PCs will ultimately be forced to argue in front of him.
