
THE HARE CLAN ADVENTURE

This is a starting adventure for three to four PCs with little to no experience. It was originally published under the title "The Hare Clan" in the Gamemaster's Pack by Alderac Entertainment Group, and was written by Patrick Kapera. Although we like the original adventure, we have modified it slightly, eliminating the side quest to Hiruma Castle involving the Hare Clan Ancestral Sword Kenno, cleaning up some contrived or odd circumstances and also making it fit better with our interpretation of Rokugan.  In particular, the Scorpion plot is much less dishonorable than in the original adventure.


MEETING MATSU CHOKOKU

Matsu Chokoku, a magistrate responsible for investigating Lion Clan internal affairs, has called in favors from the daimyo of the PCs to have them charged with the task of retrieving the Akira Scroll from the Hare Clan. He explains to the PCs that Matsu Akira, a minor diplomat from the Matsu House of Nishiyama controlling Kenson Gakka, had a secret, coded scroll that would implicate him as part of an investigation being conducted by Chokoku. Akira was seen in Otosan Uchi several times in an opium den with Usagi Ozaki, including the last time he was seen in possession of the scroll. Therefore Chokoku believes that Ozaki has the scroll and is supposed to give it to somebody. Chokoku wants the PCs to get the scroll from Ozaki and give it to the Lion Clan. However, because the Hare Clan are valued allies of the Lion Clan, he also does not want to endanger Lion-Hare relations. Therefore the PCs are to treat the matter with great discretion. However it is clear that he wants the scroll very much and would go to great lengths to get it.

Matsu Akira will relate certain other details to the PCs. He knows that Usagi Ozaki was in Otosan Uchi with his sister Tomoe and other Hare Clan vassals. He also knows that Matsu Akira is a dishonest person involved with organized crime, and believes that the scroll is related to those activities. He will reveal this information about Akira only with great reluctance.

Akira arranges for the PCs to enter Hare Clan lands on the pretense of a bandit quelling expedition. He knows that food has been stolen from Hare Clan villages for a month or so. To get the PCs on the Hare Clan's expedition against their bandits, he claims that the Lion Clan had been tracking bandits near their Hare Clan border for a few months previous to the Hare Clan bandit problem showed up, and that the bandits disappeared shortly before bandits started operating in Hare lands. Thus on the thin pretense of eliminating a mutual problem Chokoku arranges for a Lion daimyo neighboring the Hare Clan to coordinate with Usagi Oda, the Hare Clan daimyo, to have bushi from both sides fight the bandits. Oda agrees because the Lion are sending a very small group limited to the PCs, because he doesn't mind Lions hedging in on the bragging rights from such a minor thing and because he knows that the Lion cannot use this as a pretense to take his lands.

If the PCs want to know why they specifically were picked, make something up. All of the schools are extremely useful in their own right. All of the Clans have good philosophies for something. If there is a Lion character in the group, have him say that he felt it necessary to include a Lion. If there is not, have him say that he felt it necessary to not include a Lion. Et cetera ... honestly why they were chosen doesn't matter; they were chosen so that their characters could play in the adventure.

At this point the PCs should be on their way to the next section, "Hunting 'Bandits' with the Hare Clan."


BACKGROUND: MATSU CHOKOKU, THE HARE CHILDREN, AND THE SCORPION CONSPIRACY

We would like to stop for a moment and explain some of the background of this adventure, including Matsu Chokoku's back story, the reason that the Hare Clan children were in Rokugan, the actual events that led to their possession of the Akira Scroll, the details of the scroll and the as-yet unknown Scorpion Clan conspiracy of which the scroll is a only a part.

Matsu Chokoku is an fearless old magistrate in the Lion Clan. He is particularly famous for having single-handedly defeated a mighty oni. He was leading troops to defeat what was believed to be a group of bandits, but when his army saw that they were fighting a small army of monsters, half of his troops fled, and the resulting charge left Chokoku largely on his own against the monster as his remaining troops were entangled by zombies and revenants. After the battle he ordered the deserters to commit seppuku He was later assigned to a high magistrate post in the Lion Clan, working as an internal investigator for the whole Clan. His current investigation against Matsu Akira is in this capacity.

The Hare Clan children, Usagi Ozaki and Usagi Tomoe, are in Otosan Uchi on the business of arranging a beneficial marriage for Tomoe with somebody of higher station in a Great Clan. Ozaki, a bushi, is twenty years old. Tomoe, a shugenja, is eighteen. Tomoe is very intelligent, and she loves riddles, logic puzzles and other puzzles. She reads puzzle books and mystery novels, and has a collection of puzzle games including puzzle boxes that are locked unless you can reconstruct a special mosaic pattern from sliding tiles.

The Hare Clan believes it can arrange such a beneficial marriage for Tomoe because she is a shugenja, and having a shugenja in your House is always desirable because they are rare and because the talent to be a shugenja is hereditary. Their main goal, marriage to Shiba Himitsu, failed because Himitsu did not want to marry so far below his station and also had his sights set on Otomo Yoroshiku, who would choose a groom at the Winter Court at Kyuden Kagetsu in Asako lands later that year.

Accompanying the Hare children on their mission to Otosan Uchi were a trusted retainer to their clan, Usagi Seiki, and the head servant Suki (a heimin) and a retinue of servants. Usagi Seiki is a loved, trusted and loyal servant to the Usagi Family, and a very strong bushi, thirty years old this year. Ozaki and Tomoe have looked up to Seiki as a role model growing up, especially Ozaki, since Seiki is a bushi and a man like him. Seiki is also an opium addict, a dark secret known to nobody. While in Otosan Uchi Seiki visited a very seedy bar on several occasions, where he could feed his habit. On one occasion he lost track of time and Ozaki went to retrieve him. This led to him discovering Seiki's addiction. Ozaki was shaken up, but refuses to conclude that Seiki was doing anything truly wrong because he maintains admiration and love for Seiki.

It was this trip to the bar that led to the Hare children's acquisition of the Akira Scroll. While at the bar, Ozaki saw Matsu no Gohei Akira, with whom he and his family were casually acquainted from when Akira passed through their lands on business. Akira looked very nervous, and was talking to a Scorpion bushi who looked very calm. Ozaki suspected that Akira might be in trouble, and wondered if he could help him, so he had Seiki follow Akira home so that they could find him the next day. Seiki did this successfully, creating doubt in Ozaki as to whether Seiki was really an opium fiend. Ozaki and Seiki followed Akira to the same bar the next day and saw him meeting with the Scorpion again. On that occasion, Akira gave the Scorpion a scroll in exchange for what looked like a large amount of money, and the Scorpion left. Ozaki and Seiki followed the Scorpion to see what he would do next, but the Scorpion noticed them tailing him and ran. Not sure of what to do, they gave chase, and the Scorpion ducked down an ally and drew his katana against them. Seiki immediately cut the Scorpion down. Shaken, Ozaki took the scroll and they went back to Tomoe. They discovered that the scroll was coded. Having just gotten into great trouble and killing a Scorpion samurai, they became extremely afraid of what might happen next, and decided to return home to Shiro Usagi. They would go under the pretense that Himitsu had been cold to her and her chances for marriage this season were clearly bad, but in fact they would be seeking a safe haven to work on decoding the scroll. Because of her fondness for puzzle games, Tomoe is very talented and would be able to eventually decode the scroll.

Matsu Chokoku does not know that the Scorpion are involved, or that the Hare Clan children killed Soshi Yukio. Scorpion agents hushed up the involvement of Yukio. He believes that the scroll is related to organized criminal activities in which Matsu Akira is involved, and he thinks that the Hare children were asked to give it to somebody near their lands.

The Akira Scroll was written by Bayushi Sugai, the Scorpion ambassador to Kenson Gakka, and involves a plot by the Scorpion clan to conquer the city.  Six hundred years ago, in the year 553, Kenson Gakka was a Scorpion city called Shiro no Meiyo. However, the Scorpion Clan was at war with the  Ikoma family in the north and were massing troops near Kyuden Ikoma.  hile they During this time, the Matsu Family conducted a punitive expedition against the Scorpion in which they took the troop-depleted city of Shiro no Meiyo, killing every Scorpion in the city and renaming it Kenson Gakka, which means "Humility's Lesson." The city and surrounding provinces eventually became their own Matsu domain, ruled by the new Gohei House.

The Scorpion were enraged that they lost the domain in such a humiliating manner, and have wanted to retake the city over the centuries. Only now do they believe it to be possible, due to severe internal strife within the Gohei house.  The Gohei daimyo is extremely unpopular, has made many popular decisions, and has personally offended many of his retainers.  The Scorpion are about to capitalize on this in order to re-take the city which they still regard as rightfully theirs.

In order to get past the Gohei's defenses, the Scorpion have struck a deal with Matsu no Gohei Itoku, the governor of the Gohei province that lies between Kenson Gakka and its border with the Scorpion.  Gohei will allow the Scorpion army to pass through his province to reach Kenson Gakka without alerting the city. Further, he will send agents into the city to undermine its defenses, in partcular sabotaging the city gates.  In exchange, he will swear fealty to the Scorpion and be appointed governor of Kenson Gakka after the Scorpion take it.

The plot is incredibly complex and much more detailed that the basics which have just been describes.  It involves troop logistics, a number of marriage arrangements, and plans to extract the relatives of the governor and his retainer co-conspirators from Kenson Gakka prior to the invasion.  Because there are so many details and so many different parties involved, there were extended negotiations which needed to take place before the final deal could be struck.  However, such meetings would arouse suspicions if they took place in the governor's city in the Gohei domain, so the meetings all occurred in Otosan Uchi, where samurai from every clan routinely meet and make merry with one another.

Matsu Akira lives in Kenson Gakka and has been recruited to help Governor Itoku and the Scorpion clan take the city by acting as an agent and courier.  The scroll is a coded message detailing the plans that Bayushi Sugai has made to extract the relatives of Governor Itoku and his retainers from Kenson Gakka before the invasion.  It is stamped with Sugai's seal and it would be extremely bad for both the Scorpion clan and for Governor Itoku if it were found and decoded.


HUNTING "BANDITS" WITH THE HARE CLAN

As said above, Matsu Chokoku has arranged for the Lion daimyo neighboring Hare Clan lands to report to Usagi Oda, the Hare Clan daimyo, that his soldiers had been tracking bandits for a few months inside their lands and that the bandits had disappeared. The neighboring daimyo asked Oda to coordinate a few samurai of his choice with the Hare Clan bandit quelling expedition. Namely, the PCs.

The PCs meet up at the border with Hare Clan bushi including Usagi Ozaki (the daimyo's son, a bushi of age twenty) and Usagi Seiki (a trusted and loyal retainer, thirty years old). Usagi Ozaki is in command of the expedition. They know approximately where the bandits are located in a small forest, and plan to set up an ambush. On the ride there, the PCs will have a chance to talk to Seiki and Ozaki and start their relationship with them. The bushi split into two groups under the advice of Seiki. One group, which will include Seiki and the other Hare bushi excluding Ozaki, sets up the ambush and will attack the bandits. The other group, which will include the PCs and Ozaki, will spread out and noisily march through the forest to flush the bandits toward the ambush, at which point Seiki and his bushi will attack.

If the PCs want to be in on the ambush group, Oda will look to Seiki for approval. He will not grant it. The plan is locked in. The PCs do not have the authority to change this plan, and Seiki knows what he's doing. Mostly, he's protecting Ozaki and the PCs. If the PCs challenge the plan with a duel, Seiki will be happy to oblige. Seiki is much more experienced than the PCs, so he WILL win. This will also look bad for the surviving PCs later. On the other hand, if the PCs express disapproval of being placed on the team that is supposed to be away from combat but go with the plan anyway, Seiki will have greater respect for them, and will express it either on the spot or later during the banquet at Shiro Usagi.

When the PCs spread out to flush the bandits, arrange it so that they spread out in a line moving toward the ambush, parallel to the axis of the flanks of the ambushers. Ozaki should be in the center, with the PCs spread out on either side, equidistant from him. The reason for this is so that, when the combat starts, they are delayed in reaching him.

It turns out that the PCs aren't going to find bandits, because there aren't any. Instead there's an ogre which has crossed the Wall and come up through Crab and Scorpion lands to prey on Hare lands. Ogres are very intelligent monsters that will lay ambushes rather than attack outright. This one was clever enough to figure out what was going on, and so it attacked the group intended to flush it out rather than the ambush itself. The ogre attacks Ozaki. The PCs are immediately aware of the fight but are not able to reach Ozaki until he is almost dead (he has one serious wound remaining). For simplicity's sake, and so that nobody has to wait a round to enter combat, it should be assumed that all of the PCs arrive at the same time, unless somebody wants to intentionally go slowly to delay entry into combat. The ogre has 4 Fire, 5 Void, and 4 Attack. He takes five fewer damage from non-heavy weapons, and ten fewer damage from weapons smaller than a wakizashi, such as tanto and unarmed attacks. However, monks attacking unarmed are considered to be using katana. If one of the PCs has a bushi school that is designed to parry for others or otherwise protect them, then it would be a good idea for them to do so for Ozaki; it would help them out later. Hint to the PCs that they should at least move him out of the combat or protect him actively from the ogre. Don't make this obvious, but: Ozaki cannot actually die here and you will not let him die no matter where the dice fall.

The fight is supposed to be dangerous but winnable. If a PC has invested nothing in combat then this fight should kill them. The goal of this part of the adventure is to give the PCs a chance to start cultivating a relationship with Ozaki and Seiki by talking to them on the way to the forest and by proving themselves in combat, to give the PCs a sense of accomplishment for winning a tough fight, and to give the PCs the idea that Ozaki follows Seiki's lead.

After the fight, the ambush team will arrive. They wouldn't have been able to have arrived in time to participate, because they were still a good distance away and because the fight was very fast. When the ambush party arrives they will be concerned about the possibility that there would be more ogres. If a PC has the  Deployment knack, then they can roll it to determine that ogres always fight in groups, so any other ogres would have attacked with the first one. Their immediate concern is then the wounded state of Ozaki. The expedition will immediately return to the castle, where they will arrange for eta to burn the ogre and for priests to purify the forest to eradicate the Taint left by the ogre, and also have Ozaki's wounds bound properly as well as the wounds of any PCs.


A HEROES' WELCOME

For slaying a monster in his lands and saving the life of his son, Usagi Oda, the daimyo of the Hare Clan, is deeply grateful to the PCs, who will be received as heroes at his castle, Shiro Usagi. The daimyo meets them to talk to them and personally thank them. He will be curious and ask a few questions about their mission since they are probably an odd-looking bunch, but won't press hard. If the PCs have already come up with a story then this is their chance to shine; otherwise, they'll have to come up with a story on the spot, which could be a lot of fun for you. In reality the reason that they were sent instead of professional bandit hunters is that Chokoku wanted people who could conduct an effective investigation of Ozaki and Tomoe. Take note of what kind of rolls the PCs make during their encounter with Oda, because it establishes how good a relationship they have with him, which will be important later.

Later that night a banquet will be held in their honor. All of the major NPCs will be there, and Tomoe will want to thank the PCs for saving her brother. She will be hovering around her brother at the banquet. The Hare children will be nervous about the PCs, especially if there is a Scorpion present, but their uneasiness is easily dispelled since they have no reason to believe that the PCs know about the scroll.

Should a PC think that he might seduce Tomoe, she will enjoy any flirting and play along with it, but not take it seriously or respond seriously. No PC has a chance with her unless they have at least 10 points of combined Rank and Recognition - after all, she is aiming for somebody slightly above her station. Beyond this it's your call depending on what kind of game your group is running, but we don't like to involve sexuality or romance in the game any further than it is necessary to explain motives or plot points.

After the banquet the PCs are free to darken Oda's doorstep indefinitely, which will allow them to conduct the investigation to get the scroll.


A CROSSROADS

At this point, the PCs can do whatever they want. The adventure is open until the next section, "The Scorpion Siege," begins. Let the PCs do whatever they want. They do not necessarily need to even tell the daimyo about the Akira Scroll; although it would not be harmful to their cause to do so, they were asked by Matsu Chokoku to be discreet. They don't exactly have to tell the Hare children about it either.

The Hare Clan children are scared. Ozaki is responsible for killing a Scorpion, and both of them realize that they have gotten involved in something serious. After all, Yukio thought the scroll was worth killing and dying for, and Matsu Akira gave the scroll in exchange for a fortune in hard cash. They would like to decode the scroll and find out what is going on, but they will not risk their family's welfare. Mostly they are afraid of what trouble they might be in, and are looking for somebody to reassure them that nothing bad will happen. The PCs will impress them the most with Sincerity rolls - they have to sound genuine, or Ozaki and Tomoe will not be reassured.

As for Seiki, he feels personally responsible for the trouble that the children are in. He looked up to Oda in the same way that Ozaki looks up to Seiki, and Oda places a lot of trust in Seiki as a loyal, dependable and strong retainer. Now, Ozaki and Tomoe are in trouble because of events indirectly set in motion (directly, from his point of view) by his opium habit, a dishonorable thing in itself. Further, it was his blade that slew the Scorpion. This is why he feels personally responsible - he has let down Oda and Ozaki, who both have strong relationships with Seiki. Seiki is willing to turn himself in or even commit seppuku, if it would protect the Hare Clan and the children. However, he could instead be a valuable ally; since it is clear that Ozaki in particular listens to anything Seiki says, the PCs could get the scroll by convincing Seiki that it is in Ozaki and Tomoe's best interests to give the scroll to the Lion Clan. To work with the PCs, Seiki must be convinced that the PCs are capable and that the Hare children will not be in danger or lose their good reputations.

Sumi and the other servants do not even know about the Scorpion or the Akira Scroll. They are aware that Tomoe has been more private and reclusive lately than usual, but they chalk it up to emotional distress from the trip and Himitsu's cold refusal of her marriage proposal.

Since Tomoe is working on decoding the scroll, she has it in her room. It is locked inside one of her puzzle boxes. She has a half dozen of these boxes, of variable difficulty to open ranging between an easy one at 25 and the hardest one at 45. Each attempt to open a puzzle box takes ten minutes, and the scroll will invariably be in the last box that the PCs would try to open, for which the TN to open is 35. If they open the box they will find the Akira Scroll and her notes she is making in her attempts to decode it. Her room also contains other puzzles such as interlocking ring puzzles and puzzle books, as well as a small altar to the kami. It is not possible to rifle through her belongings without it being clear that they have been disturbed. Further, it is impossible to spend extensive time in her room without being noticed by a servant or a guard, who would immediately report such a thing to Tomoe. Being a woman, Tomoe will be very offended to find that somebody has violated the privacy of her room. Further, such an action is a breach of the rules of hospitality. It is possible to just break open the boxes and find the scroll without being noticed, but you should have Tomoe or Seiki walk in on them at that point; this would offend Tomoe greatly, and she, Seiki and her brother will be much less likely to trust them.

No matter what the PCs do, the best they can do is convince Tomoe and Ozaki to think about giving the scroll to them, and sleep on it, at which point the next section begins. The next section should also begin if the PCs drag and are not sure about how to proceed.


THE SCORPION SIEGE

Hare Clan scouts ride into Shiro Usagi in a panic, saying that a Scorpion army has crossed their border. The castle-town is immediately transformed into a defensive bulwark as the Hare Clan's master-at-arms and marshal of forces, Usagi Takeshi, takes command. Usagi Oda does not demand that you stay, but he will definitely not try to convince you to leave, and while hospitality rules and Bushido do not demand it of the PCs, the fact that the PCs were sent by Lions implies that they should uphold the Lion Clan alliance with the Hare Clan. Any Lion PCs actually are honor-bound to defend Shiro Usagi. Equally important, it is clear that Shiro Usagi will be completely closed off for the duration of the siege, and if the PCs leave without the scroll then they will have failed in their mission. Try not to let the PCs even consider leaving. Usagi Oda will, of course, be very grateful when the PCs opt to remain in the city and help defend their host if necessary.

Shiro Usagi is a castle-town with three moats. A Japanese castle is a large and mighty structure that is as much a feature of the land as it is a building. The central castle is the multi-storied square tower generally featured in photographs, with other buildings in the compound. The land directly under the keep and inside the first moat and wall is the most defensible, and therefore, the best land. It is where the daimyo's most valued retainers, merchants and artisans live, such as sword smiths, armor makers, bowyers, fletchers and the rice merchants and sake brewers. Beyond the first moat will be more normal people such as oil merchants, carpenters, tatami mat makers, lower-ranking retainers and temples. The best estates of lower-ranking retainers, which may be walled, and the walled temples will be used as hard points in the defense of the town in the event of invasion or a siege. Beyond the second moat and wall and within the third moat and wall are the residences and shops of the least of the townspeople, including less respectable geisha.  Normally a city as small as this would only have one or two sets of moats and walls, but this city is exceptionally well fortified considering the smallness of the Hare clan.

The castle-town is impossible to storm without sustaining severe casualties, and in fact, even for the Scorpion army would be impossible Advancing past a moat and wall involves crossing dozens of feet of water and scaling a wall twelve feet or more in height straight out of the water, while bushi and peasant conscripts are shooting arrows. Advancing through streets requires fighting past fortified temples and houses filled with archers and other bushi, and painstakingly pushing through streets where caltrops are scattered like the wildflowers of the meadows of Yoma while Hare Clan archers shoot from the safety of alleys and rooftops. (We don't know if they actually did the caltrops thing, but it sounds like a damn good idea to us.) Even camping outside of the castle-town will deplete resources and manpower, as archers will strike from afar, light cavalry will burst from the gates to carve pieces from the flanks of the siege camp and reenter through another gate. Meanwhile disease will creep into the unsanitary conditions of a feudal army, and the army will consume expensively vast quantities of food and become increasingly demoralized and fatigued.

However, it is not the goal of Bayushi Karasu, the general in command of the Scorpion army, to take Shiro Usagi. His job is actually to get the Akira Scroll back at all costs. The purpose of the army is not to seize the castle, but to make it possible to inflict a crippling number of casualties upon the small Hare Clan, which has only a few hundred samurai, so that the Hare would rather hand over the scroll than be set back several generations in terms of manpower.

Bayushi Karasu parlays with Usagi Oda. He charges Usagi Ozaki with the murder of Soshi Yukio in Otosan Uchi and demands that he be turned over to the Scorpion Clan for execution. He also charges Ozaki with the theft of Scorpion property, a scroll that was possessed by Soshi Yukio, and demands that it be returned to the Scorpion Clan at once. The alternative is a costly war. Now, Oda will not know about the scroll or Yukio unless the PCs have told him or have convinced Ozaki and Tomoe or Seiki to tell him. However, either way his response will be the same: he demands that Karasu and his army get the hell off of his land or face the wrath of the Hare-Lion alliance, says that his son has not killed anybody and that he is insulted that Karasu would implicate his son as a criminal, and disavows any knowledge of any Scorpion scroll. He will, of course, be talking to his children that night.

Karasu does not expect Oda to turn over his son, nor does he even intend to do anything to Usagi Ozaki. He only wants to get the scroll back, so he is demanding additional things from Oda as a negotiation tactic, so that he can settle for just the scroll and create the impression that he is giving ground. Once Oda refuses him, they send their best people out to face each other in duels to test one another. Then he immediately sets his army to attacking the castle-town, to start inflicting costly casualties against the Hare Clan.

The duels are kind of a matter of course in Rokugani warfare, but Karasu also hopes to sap some of Oda's best bushi. He wants to fight twenty-five duels, since he doesn't think he can convince Oda to fight more than that. Oda and Takeshi will do it too, because they don't want to look weak and because they think they can win most of the duels. However, it's not in their best interests to get a twelfth of their samurai into lethal, and the PCs should point that out. They could convince Oda to talk Karasu down to only fifteen duels and still look very strong. Here's how the duels work: each time a Scorpion bushi will walk into the shadow of the gates. He will swagger a bit and then shout out his name and accomplishments, and ask if there is any bushi in the Hare Clan courageous and determined enough to face him. There always will be, because there is a lot of glory to be won in defeating one of the Scorpion duelists. This will happen a number of times agreed upon in advance by Bayushi Karasu and Usagi Oda. The Hare duelists have the advantage in general, because the Scorpion army is composed of bushi from several Scorpion Houses, and no House sent their best bushi.

At this point Ozaki, Tomoe and Seiki are terrified and are ready to give back the scroll, no matter what the PCs may have told them before. If they have been talking to the PCs about it before they will come to them again. If they have not and the PCs do not talk to them before nightfall then they will tell their father about it, and he will confront the PCs, whose mission will be obvious to Oda when he hears about Matsu Akira's involvement with the scroll. The children and Seiki were willing to hold out when there was no army on their doorstep, but are unwilling to watch their friends and subjects die over an unknown secret message. In particular, Seiki will offer to take responsibility for killing Soshi Yukio, although Ozaki, Tomoe and Oda will all reject this option because they love and value Seiki. Oda will likewise be unwilling to lose a significant number of his vassals while waiting for the Lion to show up; he would prefer to keep his scarce retainers alive and hand over the scroll, which means nothing to him. It is up to the PCs to explain to them that all will ultimately go well, and why they stand to gain from keeping the scroll.

The players themselves might not have any idea why the Usagi should keep the scroll. They probably realize that it's obviously important but I wouldn't be surprised if they were unable to come up with a solid argument for why on their first adventure. However, you can relate to them some or all of our explanation in the next paragraph if a PC can roll at all well on the relevant knacks, especially History, Heraldry, and Deployment.

It is clear that the Scorpion are desperate to get their hands on the scroll, because they are risking a lot and breaking the law to get it back, therefore the cost of losing it must be even greater to them. They also know that Chokoku wants the scroll very much, and that he has offered to back the Hare Clan if they will give back the scroll. What the PCs must convince Oda, the children and Seiki is that not only are they in the right, but also that the Scorpions are obviously in the wrong, and furthermore, when (not if, WHEN) the Lion army shows up, the Hare Clan will gain several Scorpion villages in the neighboring domains because the Scorpion Clan are violating the Hare Clan's territorial integrity as well as other laws. The extra villages will allow the Hare Clan to quickly recover from the casualties inflicted by Bayushi Karasu. They must convince Oda and Seiki with rolls in Law, Heraldry, History, and Delployment, but again it is Sincerity that will most convince Ozaki and Tomoe. In particular, the tale of how their ancestor Usagi Gohei and fifty Hare bushi held off an army of Bloodspeakers will encourage all of them. The Law knack can be used to explain why Karasu's charges against Ozaki and Tomoe will never stick, and the History knack can be used to explain why the Scorpion Clan won't even pursue those charges in court. The Deployment knack will explain how the Hare stand to gain numerous villages when the Lion join them.

Incidentally, using the Tact knack will be very important when the PCs tell Oda that his retainer killed a Scorpion and that his children took a scroll from the Scorpion's dead body.

If the PCs do not act then Tomoe and Ozaki will tell their father about the scroll and Oda will hand it over to protect his Clan, but if the PCs get involved at all then they can almost certainly convince the Hare to keep the scroll and hold out for Lion reinforcements.

If for some reason the PCs do not prevent the Hare Clan from giving up the scroll, then Oda will quickly negotiate down to just giving the scroll to Bayushi Karasu, and Karasu will take his army away. The Scorpion conspiracy will remain undiscovered, and bad things will happened as described later in "Resolution."

After the first twenty-four hours the Hare will have to retreat from their outer moat and wall to the second moat and wall. This may sound bad, but they have to do it because they don't really have enough people to hold the extensive outer wall. Oda and Takeshi would rather retreat to the second wall and let the Scorpion army do some damage to the poorer sections of town than stretch their people too thin. The advance is very costly for the Scorpion for reasons described in the paragraph about Japanese castles above. However, Karasu will reiterate his demands to Oda at this time, and if he isn't really resolved about the scroll thing, this is probably when the Akira Scroll would be given up.

They can also help Tomoe decode the Akira Scroll. Decoding the scroll entails making a series of gradually decreasing TN rolls on Water + Investigation. The first TN is 60, the second is 50, the third is 40, the fourth is 30, and the fifth is 20. Each attempt takes five hours, so decoding the scroll will take a minimum of twenty-five hours (just long enough that the duels described above will still occur) even if Tomoe is very lucky. Tomoe has 4 Water and 4 Investigation and will spend one Void Point every time, so she is rolling 10k6, giving her less than a 20% chance of beating the first TN. Since the total time it takes to decode the scroll is mostly a function of how lucky Tomoe is on the first few rolls, any help could push her over the edge. PCs may contribute to her decoding efforts: for each rank of the Investigation knack they have, by working with her for the entire five hours, they may contribute one free raise to one of her decoding attempts. If the scroll is decoded then they will learn its contents. This is definitely a big deal, even cause for war if the Lion Clan wants it to be. If anybody, especially Usagi Oda, tells Bayushi Karasu that they know what is in the scroll, then Karasu's army will back off.

The PCs may also go to the front lines if they actually want to. Rolling out a mass battle would be very ugly, but it's pretty much guaranteed that the PC will end up down before the end of a few hours of rolling. You're better off just saying that they whack mercilessly a bunch of mook-level ashigaru, and then pit them against a Rank Three Bayushi bushi with 4 Fire every so often, whom they would probably fight in an informal duel in which there is a single iaijutsu challenge followed by kenjutsu. Any PC who is wounded from the duel would be wise to stay away from the front lines.

That's pretty much it. Lion reinforcements can come whenever you want them to. However, Lion reinforcements will arrive on the third day, which will be a dark day for the Scorpion whether or not the scroll is yet decoded.


RESOLUTION

It's possible for all of the PCs to die in this adventure. It's an extremely slim possibility, but it's there. If this has happened, talk to your players about why. Chances are their characters were not designed to survive combats. Either that or they must have tried to kidnap Usagi Tomoe or something. (It's been tried. The guards got him JUST before he made it to her.)

Potentially the PCs could have let the Akira Scroll slip through their grasp by failing to convince the Usagi Family how it is to their advantage to hold it. If that happens, then the Scorpion army left and the PCs were left looking stupid. The mechanical consequences are explained below in "Debriefing the PCs." The storyline consequences are that Matsu Chokoku's investigation of Matsu Akira will stall, the Lion Clan will never find out about the Scorpion conspiracy to take Kenson Gakka, the karo will be assassinated and the rest of their plot will unfold as explained in the "Background" section. Now I'm not saying that ALL of this is the fault of the PCs, but... ah well.

Most likely the PCs convinced Usagi Oda, Tomoe, Ozaki and Seiki to hold on to the Akira Scroll. The Lion army will show up led by Matsu Chokoku and Bayushi Karasu will hastily retreat, and Chokoku will be happy to see that the scroll is still there. He will be appreciative of the PCs, especially when he finds out what the scroll actually is. The Lion Clan will investigate further and discover the Scorpion conspiracy, and Matsu Joji will be protected. Matsu Akira will be allowed to retire to a monastery after he testifies against Bayushi Sugai in the court of the Emerald Magistrate, and between the Akira testimony and Usagi Oda's testimony the Scorpion will be in a lot of trouble. The Lion will declare war on the Scorpion for the insult, and snatch a number of villages and possibly a few domains around the Hare Clan and Kenson Gakka. The Hare Clan will gain several villages and will be able to recover quickly from the casualties inflicted on it by Bayushi Karasu. Matsu Chokoku will happily work with the PCs again in the future.

If the PCs and Tomoe decoded the Akira Scroll before the Lion army arrived, then the Hare Clan is even better off because it will have lost fewer samurai. Usagi Oda would be very grateful.

Possibly the PCs saved the scroll but offended the Hare Clan. Matsu Chokoku would be annoyed if this were the case, and the PCs would gain much less glory because of the shame brought by their behavior.
