
This adventure assumes that Ryoma lost his business license and was ejected from the district, but not from the city.  Thus, we will probably need to rewrite this adventure to make it more generic.

The PCs are once again approached by Ide Tensuko herself.  She introduces them to a weapons merchant named Tatsuma, then leaves.

Tatsuma tells the PCs that he's been dealing with a mercenary hirer named Mutsuo, who introduced him to a woman named Hida Yotsu.  He sold Yotsu a number of samurai weapons, as she seemed to have the proper licenses.  He then was later introduced to Ryoma though Yotsu, and he saw Ryoma and Yotsu talking together with Mutsuo.

After speaking with Tensuko, he learned about Ryoma's history and thinks that "Yotsu" is really Riho, since she matches Riho's description perfectly.  This implies that Ryoma was meeting with Riho, who isn't even allowed in the city anymore, which means that he has committed a serious crime and may be able to be convicted for his involvement with Yomaru's organization.

Tatsuma says that he realizes that he may have unwittingly sold weapons to a criminal; Yotsu's documents must have been forged.  He wants to make things right, but doesn't want to go to the magistrates with only suspicions, especially since he might get into trouble.  He asks the PCs to look into the matter, since they have been involved with the Yomaru investigation.

In fact, most of this story is a lie.  What actually happened is that Mutsuo used to do a little bit of contracting work for Tensuko's organization and recently stopped.  At the same time Ryoma started meeting with them, so Tensuko's lieutenants believe that he's recruiting them, and that they will either join Yomaru or strike out on their own.  Either way, Tensuko doesn't like it and sees an opportunity to take down Ryoma and possibly even Mutsuo.

As the PCs investigate Mutsuo, they'll learn that his men were recently thrown out of a local geisha house for peddling opium, which that particular geisha house did not allow.  Mutsuo himself will basically refuse to talk to the PCs at all.  He will be particularly concerned if they try to force their way in, because he's currently holding about 50 koku worth of opium, which he plans to flip at a profit over the next few months.

It's likely that he'll eventually attack the PCs, depending on what they do.  After being defeated, he'll say that he was approach by Ryoma and has expressed an interest in working with him, but has not yet made any arrangements with him.  He'll even let the PCs know where Ryoma is, but he'll deny (truthfully) having ever dealt with anyone named Hida Yotsu or anyone who fits Riho's description.

The PCs will now be in a position to arrest Ryoma, although they may figure out that the charges are trumped up.  They could choose to try to go after Tatsuma for lying to them, but Tensuko will certainly take his side and offer to duel for him if it comes to that.  Ryoma will admit to talking to Mutsuo but will (truthfully) deny everything else.

If it becomes clear to Ryoma that he'll be arrested and convicted regardless of being innocent of what he's currently being accused of, he'll flip on his boss and reveal that Toshi is really Yomaru in exchange for leniency.

Ryoma's testimony is not enough on it's own to convict Toshi, since he is a criminal.  The PCs might try bringing some of the doshin who saw Yomaru to look at Toshi.  Unfortunately, Toshi is good at acting and disguises and the doshin will not be able to make good identifications.  However, they can possibly be persuaded to just SAY that it's definitely him, depending on what they're offered.

At this point the PCs will have to decide whether they want to pursue a legal case against Toshi now or try to gather more testimony.  This will be made complicated by who they've decided to support for governor; Toshi is a fellow Lion and thus his guilt would not reflect well on Oshu.  However, Toshi is also very close to Kuroka and used his position to manipulate Kuroka, thus allowing him to build his organization, which doesn't reflect well on Kuroka.  So regardless of what happens, there will be political fallout that the PCs will have to deal with.

In our case, the PCs ducked these issues by having Toshi assassinated; they hired thugs to kill him and lured him to the right place at the right time.
