The largest dojo in the former Jato district (now the NE Juramashi district) was the dojo run by Matsu no Goshen Oshu. Not only did he train a large number samurai, he was also in charge of training for all of the NE district's doshin (peasant patrolmen who work for the samurai magistrates). When the district changed hands, Oshu stayed on and continued training doshin out of a sense of responsibility, since the Akito House would have been unable to easily absorb the extra responsibility all at once.

Oshu is an extremely accomplished and respected bushi, whose honor and leadership abilities are universally recognized. Because of this, if the Goshen House regains control of the district when Juramashi is gone, Oshu would probably become the new governor. Of course, it's just as likely that a different Matsu House would gain control, since the Goshen House shamed itself by losing control of the district in the first place. And Oshu has said that if someone else becomes governor, he would continue to run his dojo and would be willing to train doshin for the good of the district no matter what clan the governor was from.

The largest dojo in the SW Juramashi district is run by Hida no Akito Tomari, but his dojo trains only samurai. Some students of the Tomari dojo occasionally like to brag that they come from a real dojo, while Oshu basically just runs a training house for doshin that also trains samurai. This doesn't go over well with Oshu's student, and has led to something of a rivalry.

This rivalry has resulted in an escalating series of pranks between students of the two dojos, such as:
* putting insulting signs on the backs of the other students
* tripping other students after a rainy day so that they'd fall in the mud
* throwing rotten eggs all around the other dojo at night so that there'd be a huge stink built up by morning
* pouring water around the other dojo in winter so that a thin layer of ice covered the ground and students couldn't come or leave without slipping
* setting a rope snare so that one of the students was hung upside down from a tall building in public until the other students could get her down
* putting up signs outside the other dojo before the Bon festival saying that free wooden Bon masks would be given out to the first hundred people in line so that the other dojo had to buy them and give them out or lose face
* paying the barkeep where the other students drink to give them extra strong drinks so that they'll get really drunk, then when they were too drunk to defend themselves dying their faces bright green with dye that would take a few weeks to completely fade and come out

This last prank was the most recent one committed, and it was performed by Oshu's students. A few weeks after it, a local noble named Hantei Gurin decided to hold a tournament between the two dojos. This was mostly unrelated to the pranks, though he is a good friend of Matsu Oshu and wanted to give Oshu a chance to demonstrate the skill of his students.

The tournament had several parts, such as combat between small groups, combat between small groups of students and lots of doshin, kata demonstration, one-on-one kenjutsu fighting, feats of strength, etc. Each part was worth points and the winning dojo would be the one to get the most points. And the main event that was worth more points than anything was an iaijutsu duel between the most promising student from each dojo.

Oshu's student Matsu Noshiko ended up winning the duel against Tamori's student Hida Koyo, which won the tournament for Oshu's dojo. It was then revealed that Noshiko had actually sprained her wrist a few days prior, so not only had she won the duel, she had done so with a fairly significant handicap. Though the sprain was minor, it was still enough to be somewhat embarrassing for Koyo and to a lesser extent Tomari's other students.

So the night after the tournament, the Oshu dojo was broken into and the trophy was taken. The trophy was made out of gold, though it was revealed once it was stolen that in fact it was only gold-plated and thus not that valuable. However, robbery seemed unlikely since there were other valuable trophies laid out alongside that one which were left untouched.

Immediately a group of Oshu's students set out for the other dojo and encountered a group of Tomari's students outside. They feared that the trophy had been taken as a prank and wanted to get it back themselves rather than returned in a humiliating fashion. They demanded to know whether any students from that dojo had taken it and demanded it back, saying that if it was a prank then it had gone way too far.

The group of Tomari's students all vehemently denied having anything to do with that and declared that no student of Tomari's would have ever done anything like that. They then made the assertion that if Oshu's dojo couldn't even protect their own trophy then they shouldn't come accusing Tomari's dojo. This was taken poorly and it almost came to blows, but Tomari himself came outside and ushered his students away and broke it up before an altercation could occur.

However, when word got back to Oshu of the very public insult about his dojo being too weak to protect the trophy, he was furious. He demanded a public apology from either Tomari or the student who had uttered the insult. However, while Tomari believes that the insult was out of line, he doesn't want to apologize because he knows that such an apology could be viewed as an admission of guilt over the theft of the trophy.

Oshu eventually gave an ultimatum to Tomari; either issue an apology for the insult or meet him for a duel. Tomari reluctantly agreed to the duel - although he had no desire to fight Oshu to the death, he saw no other way to defend the honor of his dojo and prevent his students from being seen as thieves. No one is sure who would win that duel, since both men are excellent duelists and have never before fought each other. Many people feel that Oshu is the superior fighter, while others feel that they are probably evenly matched.

Oshu doesn't particularly want the duel either, but he sees no other way to save face. He believes that one of Tomari's students probably did take the trophy, but is afraid to come forward now and may have even thrown the trophy in the river or otherwise disposed of it by now so as not to be found out. So while he's not certain that one of them did take it and will not make such an accusation publicly, the suspicion makes the insult against his dojo all the more serious.

It has been suggested that if Oshu had his students apologize for being so accusational in the first place that Tomari could save enough face to have his own students apologize. However, Oshu knows that such an apology could be taken as stating that Tomari's students are not responsible, which he is unwilling to do. Besides which, he doesn't believe that his students acted wrongly; asking whether the trophy was stolen as a prank seemed like a reasonable thing to do given the circumstances.

Unfortunately, the magistrate Kuroka hasn't really been conducting a proper investigation. For one thing, he can't really question Oshu's students (particularly the doshin who might have stolen it for profit) without offending Oshu. Similarly, he can't come down too hard on Tomari's students without impugning their words that they aren't involved. And of course, he's kind of hoping that the duel happens anyway, and that Oshu is killed, since that would greatly increase his chances of becoming governor after Juramashi steps down.

Both Oshu and Tomari have since gone to their students and made a blanket statement that if anyone did take the trophy, they could return it anonymously and the matter would never be spoken of again. However, neither man wants to admit this publicly, since it could be taken to mean that they each don't really trust their own students. And even if that were discovered it wouldn't stop the impending duel between them.

Meanwhile, Hantei Gurin has become very distressed at how things are turning out. He feels partially responsible since it was his tournament that led to all of this, and he doesn't want to see either Oshu or Tomari die at the hands of the other. So he comes to the PCs and asks that they look into the matter. He has asked other groups of people to look into this as well, but he's hoping that if he throws enough people at the matter then someone will be able to either figure out who took the trophy or help work out an acceptable solution that doesn't end in bloodshed.

He's asked the two men to postpone their duel until the end of the week, which is 5 days away from the start of the adventure. It would be improper for him to ask them to cancel the duel outright, and it's unlikely that they would listen to him if he did ask, but they both agreed to the delay. Each of them is hoping that the other will make the first move and that the duel can be avoided, but neither is willing to be the first one to blink and they're both willing to duel if it comes down to it.

So that's the setup for the adventure. I'll post more on who actually took the trophy and how the adventure turned out for this L7R group later.

...

So here's what's really going on.

When Oshu's best student duelist (Matso Noshiko) sprained her wrist during practice, only those present in the dojo knew about it. A few of them told some friends, but for the most part, it was kept pretty quiet. So this meant that anyone placing a bet on that duel had some extremely valuable inside information.

As a result, a bunch of doshin who had been present at the time placed large bets against Noshiko. Normally they'd have bet for her, but after she insisted that she was well enough to compete and that her injury would only be a small handicap, these doshin felt that it would be enough to swing the odds against her. Of course, they ended up losing.

One doshin squad captain named Jigoro placed an extremely large bet of 8 koku, and he was unable to cover more than a fraction of it after Noshiko defied expectations and won despite her injury. He went to a moneylender the morning after the bet and borrowed enough money to keep the bookie happy for the time being until he could work out some kind of payment plan. He then learned of the theft of the trophy, and at this time Oshu revealed to everyone that the trophy had been gold plated rather than solid gold as many people had assumed.

Jigoro went to the bookie to pay back the debt, but the bookie (whose name was Jizu) assured him that it was already taken care of. He revealed that he had stolen the trophy, and had left the other less-valuable trophies untouched to make it look like a personal and/or political theft rather than a for-profit robbery. He said that if Jigoro told anyone then he would deny this and point the finger at Jigoro for being a degenerate gambler who had probably stolen the trophy himself. At the very least, Jigoro would probably lose his lofty position as squad captain and probably get fined and fired, even if they believed he was innocent of the theft.

Jizu was keeping open the option of melting down the trophy for its gold but figured that Jigoro could help him safely and covertly negotiate for its return at a much higher price due to the great symbolic value it had in addition to its material value. However, he was extremely disappointed when Jigoro informed him that the trophy was in fact merely gold plated and thus largely worthless. The symbolic value was still there, but the price would be far less for a gold-plated trophy than a solid gold one, making ransom no longer worth the risk.

Jizu wanted to pursue the matter somehow, but Jigoro would have none of it. He pulled out a knife and cut the back of his hand and swore a blood oath on the spot that if Jizu ever tried anything else against Oshu then Jigoro would turn him in regardless of the consequences. He then bandaged his hand (which would remain bandaged for the rest of the adventure and possibly be noticed by the PCs). He then returned the money he had borrowed to the moneylender, who was puzzled at receiving the exact same money back, and so soon after the loan.

By the time Oshu and Tomari had arranged their duel, Jigoro felt it was too late to turn himself in. He rationalized that it would shame Oshu, who he was confident would win the duel, and he was terrified ruining his career. And when Oshu said that everything would go away if the trophy was returned, he still said nothing since he didn't actually have the trophy.

Meanwhile, Jizu figured that he could at least recoup some of his losses by taking bets on the upcoming duel, so he decided to sit tight and keep the trophy hidden. If anyone somehow traced it to him he could still deny everything and try to extort money out of them. He will try this with any PCs who suspect him or who he thinks will figure out what happened.

The PCs might figure this out by checking the local moneylenders trying to locate people with gambling debts and learn that Jigoro took out a huge loan and then immediately repaid it. Or if they were lucky they might locate the cat burglar that Jizu used to steal the trophy and work from there. They could even go right to Jizu and ask who had lost a lot of money on a bet recently - he wouldn't tell them about Jigoro, but he might sell them information about other recent losers for a lot of money, and they might learn about Jigoro through them.

Of course, solving the whodunit isn't absolutely necessary. If the PCs could somehow negotiate or otherwise bring about a peaceful resolution to the dispute between Oshu and Tomari, Hantei Gurin would be satisfied. It would be difficult to persuade either man to make the first move, but it might still be possible to either do this or get them to make some other agreement. And of course the PCs could also point the finger at one side or the other (or even frame someone for the theft if they were particularly underhanded).

So that's the adventure. I haven't listed every character, but I have covered all of the most important stuff. If anyone is really interested in how my players solved it, I can tell them. But I'd rather not write a detailed post about it here, since I have to do so much writing for both my L7R and Hackmaster groups already. Perhaps one of the players can be persuaded to post an account of how things went down for them.
