
This adventure needs to be largely rewritten to make it more generic.  The version that I ran assumed that the PCs were good friends with Jizu and that they owed him a SERIOUS favor.

Also, my memory of this adventure is very fuzzy for some reason, and I can only remember a few details.  I'd appreciate it if anyone who played in this adventure could fill in any gaps that they can remember.

Basically, at the start of the adventure there was another large attack against Ide Tensuko's organization.  The attackers were using samurai weapons, including bows.  Some of the attackers were killed, and one of them is someone who works part-time for Jizu.  As such, Kuroka is putting enormous pressure on Jizu and threatening to revoke his business license and run him out of the district, etc.

Jizu comes to the PCs and wants their help.  He needs them to find whoever was behind this and clear his name.  The guy who worked for him was just some guy and Jizu had no idea what was going on.

Jizu tried to talk to the guy's family to find out what was going on, but they refused to even talk to him and sent him away, clearly angry at him and blaming him for their son's death.  Jizu wants the PCs to talk to this family, as they will hopefully be able to find out something useful; perhaps they know who else their son was working for.

When the PCs go to this house, they will immediately be attacked.  The survivors of the attack on Tensuko's place, since one of the other sons of that family was also involved in the attack.  After witnessing the death of his brother, he had something of a breakdown and kept stammering that he needed to go home.  Not willing to just kill him but also not willing to let him go, the rest of the goons took him home.  Since they needed to lie low for awhile anyway, they decided to stay there to watch the younger brother and his family and make sure no one reported them.

Since these men work for Ryoma, after being caught the survivors will tesify that Ryoma ordered the attack.  This is not enough to convict Ryoma, but it is enough to get his business license revoked and to have him ejected from the city.

The best thing that happened during this adventure was definitely when the PCs staked their reputation on Jizu's innocence without really knowing whether he was innocent.
