
The PCs are approached by the magistrate for the neighboring district to the northwest, Shinjo Kyomori.  Kyomori has recently been having the problem that thugs in his district have been ending up with samurai weapons, such as naginata and even bows.  Since the weapons industry is heavily regulated, there are only a small number of merchants capable to procuring these weapons.  He's certain that no one in his district is responsible, and thus he's gone to magistrates in the neighboring districts, asking for their cooperation in investigating their merchants.

Zenshi and Kagame have agreed, but Kuroka refused, saying that it wasn't worth the time and effort and money it would take, and that it would unduly harass these merchants.  Kuroka also claimed that Kyomori was probably just blind to the problem in his own district, which is probably where the corrupt weapons merchant was anyway.

Kyomori decided to go ahead and start investigating merchants in the NE Juramashi district anyway.  He started with a merchant who was new to the district, since he was the most likely culprit, Daidoji no Bakan Noria.  He had one of his magistrates go undercover and approach Noria looking to buy some weapons.  As the negotiations went forward, the undercover agent revealed that he didn't technically have a license to purchase this quantity of weapons but assured Noria that he was legitimate and merely wanted to avoid the undue licensing fees and take the weapons back to his daimyo.

Noria pretended to go along with the deal, but then informed Kuroka, who had the man arrested.  When it came out that this man was worknig for Kyomori, Kuroka was outraged.  He had Yoruga forbid Kyomori from conducting future investigations in the district, and Kyomori's boss, the governor, was forced to issue a formal apology.

However, Kyomori is still convinced that the corrupt weapons merchant is from Kuroka's district, since all other merchants in the quad-district area have checked out.  He wants the PCs to continue to look into the matter; he stresses that they won't be working for him and thus won't violate any Imperial order, but since they live in that district it's their right to ask around about these things.

The PCs should know that they will indeed be in hot water if they're caught doing this, although they won't technically be breaking any laws.  Kyomori believes that Noria is probably innocent because he reacted as an honest man would to the sting operation, although the PCs are free to look into him if they wish.

The man selling the weapons illegally is of course Matsu Toshi, aka Hida Yomaru.  He will probably be approached by the PCs in some form or other during the investigation.  He will flatter them and say that he knows them by reputation because of all the great things they've done for the district.  He'll talk up his relationships with both Oshu and Kuroka, although he'll express a strong personal preference for Oshu and talk aboutthe campaigning he's done on Oshu's behalf.

Toshi is the merchant who sells the district the weapons they supply to their doshin.  He also was the person who sold weapons to Riho, as well as the person who sells weapons to Ryoma.  This might make the PCs suspicious if they uncover it.  Toshi is also friends with Chikara, which might also make them suspicious if they learn about it.

Regardless, Toshi has a meeting with Kuroka soon after the PCs talk to him, since he meets with Kuroka frequently as part of his business.  He will act slightly nervous during this conversation, prompting Kuroka to ask what's wrong.  Toshi will seem very reluctant to say anything, but will let Kuroka drag the details out about how the PCs were asking about him and probably investigating the illegal weapons trade.  Toshi begs Kuroka to not let anyone know who told him this; he doesn't want to cause any trouble, but says that he cannot in good conscience lie to Kuroka about the matter.  Kuroka will of course promise to keep it quiet who told him.

Kuroka will then approach the PCs and demand an explanation.  Depending on how that goes, he might go to Hantei Yoruga to get the PCs evicted from the district, which Yoruga might be well inclined to do.

This adventure is very dangerous for the PCs, because there's a non-negligible chance that they will be ejected from the district.  However, this adventure contains a great opportunity to learn that Toshi is really Yomaru and possibly bring him down for it.

If the PCs question Toshi afterwards, he will deny talking to Kuroka.  If they force him to, he will even give his word that he did not.  If this comes out, it will make even Kuroka very suspicous of him, although Toshi will later deny ever having given his word to that effect.  However, it's very possible for the adventure to end without the PCs knowing which weapons merchant sold them out, since there are several other weapons merchants (in particular, a local heimen merchant family and a Hida samurai merchant from the Akito house).
