I've decided to write down the L7R group's adventures after they've been completed. I won't be doing blow-by-blow summaries of everything that happened, because it's already going to take me a long time to write down the adventure details. But if one of the players feels led to do that themselves, I imagine that other Fattopians would enjoy reading it.

Before I give details on the first adventure, I should give some campaign details. This series of adventures takes place in Otosan Uchi, the capital of the Empire. Otosan Uchi is by far the largest city in Rokugan, and its population is over half a million. The Hantei family rules the city, but there are only about 15,000 Hantei samurai, and only about 10,000 of them live in the city. This isn't nearly enough to administrate Otosan Uchi, so they break the city into districts and have the major clans govern and administrate them.

These adventures take place in the Juramashi district. Each district is named for its current governor, and the ruler of this district is Hida no Akito Juramashi. Until recently, this was actually two separate districts; the other district was governed by Matsu no Goshen Jato. Juramashi and Jato never liked each other and had a longstanding feud which grew worse over time.

Then on Juramashi's 40th birthday, things got really out of hand. Jato was at his birthday celebration and was less than polite, some thinly veiled insults were exchanged, and the two began shouting furiously at each other. Accounts differ as to who really started this, but by the end of the night the two had agreed to a duel to the death, with the winner gaining control of the district of the loser. The Emperor approved this, but with the stipulation that control of the loser's district would only belong to the House of the winner for so long as the winner remained governor.

Both men were accomplished warriors, but Juramashi ended up winning, though it was a close fight and he was badly wounded by the end. That was 11 years ago, and Juramashi has had to remain governor the entire time so that his House does not lose control of the other district. Juramashi was the oldest son of the Akito daimyo, but Juramashi has been forced to keep the position for as long as he is alive which has caused his younger brother Ryuden to become daimyo in his place so their family does not lose the district even sooner.

What makes this especially interesting is that the two districts did not even border each other, though they were relatively close. The Jato district was a few miles to the northeast of Juramashi's district, though the city has been gerrymandered so that they are now technically connected by a very thin path of land. So although this is technically a single district, the NE and SW districts have different sets of officials administrating day-to-day affairs.

Shortly after Juramashi turned 50, he began replacing prominent officials in the NE district. He began by appointing a new chief magistrate, then a new minister of commerce, then a new chief tax collector. These were interesting appointments because these men were not from the Akito house and were not even from the Crab clan. Rather, they were from the Bakan House of the Daidoji family, with whom the Akito do a great deal of trade.

Juramashi knows that the NE district will not end up in the hands of the Crab clan. But he doesn't want it to end up back in the hands of the Lion, since that would be of little benefit to him. So he's placed Daidoji no Bakan Kuroka as chief magistrate and begun puting other members of his House in prominent positions so that by the time he leaves they'll already be running the NE district. Presumably he and his House are receiving compensation for this from the Bakan House, but the details are not public. Even if it doesn't work out, the relationship between their two Houses will be greatly strengthened.

Kuroka is also hedging his bets by trying to build up a solid reputation and set of allies. He's singled out several high-ranking Hantei nobles who live in the NE district and has made friends with them. For example, the Imperial magistrate for the NE district is Hantei Yoruga, and Kuroka will often go to him for advice on tough cases. Afterwards he'll send his thanks along with lavish gifts to show his friendship and generosity. He does similar things with Hantei Atsuko, a courtier who lives in the NE district and often attends the Imperial court. He'll ask her to introduce him to someone or to help a friend of his court young woman, then bestow rich gifts to show his thanks. His hope is that these and other such Hantei nobles will speak on his behalf when the time comes to choose a new governor.

This has upset the Matsu family as a whole, and the Goshen House in particular. The only Lion district in the city is run by the Akodo, and the Matsu very much want back their seat of power in the Empire's capital. And there are still quite a few Goshen samurai in the NE district, many of whom still occupying the official positions they held under Jato. They are also trying to steer the Emperor's eventual decision towards giving the district back to the Matsu family.

Demographically, the population of the Juramashi district is about 80,000. This splits to about 50k / 30k between the SW and NE districts. In the average district of Otosan Uchi, about 2/3 of the samurai population is from the clan controlling that district and the other 1/3 is from miscellaneous other clans. In the case of the NE district, it's about a 1:1:1 ration of Crab, Lion, and miscellaneous samurai (about 500 of each).

Anyway, that's the setting for this series of adventures. I'll post the specifics of each adventure as the group completes them. They finished their first adventure this week, so I'll begin writing its details soon.
