
As I said, I'm finally getting around to writing up the remaining Otosan Uchi adventures.  Since everyone now knows all the once-secret details of the adventures, these writeups wil be a little different.  Instead of describing the anticipated sequence of events, I'll start with the behind-the-scenes setup and go from there.

The local opium lord is a man named Matsu no Matsu Toshi, who is a weapons dealer; his main client is the doshin of the city, although he also sells higher-quality weapons out of his store.  He is the friend (and supplier) of the owner of a local opium den, Matsu no Matsu Chikara, who throws invitation-only parties at his home where he sells opium to his guests.  Toshi and Chikara both very much want Oshu to become governor out of clan loyalty, and because Toshi also believes Oshu would be more lenient on him if his status as an opium lord were ever uncovered (though he is incorrect about this).

Thus, Toshi has hatched a plot to publicly embarrass Kuroka by discrediting one of his magistrates, Daidoji no Bakan Namito, who he has discovered likes to gamble on fights.  When Namito goes to Jizu Us and Pals to gamble, he uses the name Mumeshi (which means "anonymous"), so Toshi convinces Chikara to say that Namito also buys opium under the same name.

This would be especially embarrassing for Kuroka and damning for Namito because there has been so much speculation about a magistrate or someone else close to Kuroka working for the local opium lord (since the local opium lord knew about Renku's promotion).  Thus, if this magistrate were caught being a gambler and opium user, it'd look like he was the one who had tipped off Yomaru.

So Toshi has Shosuro Aidanu (if not for Elliot being present, we would make it some NPC) come to the PCs with this information about Namito.  Aidanu says that he has himself been to Jizu's place and Chikara's place and seen Namito at both places.

When the PCs visit Chikara, he will seem VERY reluctant to talk to them.  He will try to send them away, citing the privacy of his guests and saying that it would be bad hospitality (which is a tenant of bushido) for him to reveal anything about his guests.  Of course, this is all to make him seem more credible; if the PCs have to drag the information out of him, it will make it seem like he's not just going along with things.

The only way Chikara will reveal anything is if it seems to be part of a larger investigation; whether he smokes opium is in and of itself irrelevant.  If the PCs "convince" him that it is important for tracking down Yomaru, he will "relent" and reveal that Namito indeed smokes opium under the name Mumeshi.  However, he will refuse to name other guests or allow the PCs at one of his parties, since they are clearly investigators even if they are not actually magistrates.

Toshi also wants to kill the PCs, though he does not share this with Chikara, who would not knowingly be complicit in a murder.  So as the PCs are investigating the gambling/opium connection and trying to either witness Namito doing either gambling or opium, they will be attacked.  The goons sent after them are injstricted to ask whether they're the ones asking about Namito and then attack.  If defeated they'll say that they were hired to merely beat the PCs to threaten them off, although their instructions were actually to kill the PCs.

What ends up happening depends largely on what the PCs do; this adventure is more open-ended than most in that way.
