One morning, an influential local courtier named Hantei Atsuko comes to the PCs with a minor but delicate personal problem. She recently bought a necklace for a friend of hers (Hida Hikari) which was set with a very nice 3-inch long amethyst. Hikari loved the necklace and even went shopping to buy a new outfit to go along with it.

However, after Atsuko gave the necklace to Hikari, she was talking with another friend of hers named Daidoji Tsukiyama, who had recently been burglarized. Atsuko had known about the burglary and had talked to her friend immediately afterwards; Tsukiyama had actually moved into a new house on the other side of the district, saying that the experience of being robbed was so traumatic that she didn't want to stay in that house any longer. However, Atsuko hadn't heard the details about what was stolen until the night before she came to the PCs.

Apparently all of Tsukiyama's jewelry was stolen, including a tiara which contained a 3-inch long amethyst which sounded exactly like the one on the necklace which Atsuko had just bought for Hikari. Atsuko immediately felt uncomfortable and suspicious, worrying that she had inadvertantly given the jewelry stolen from one friend as a gift to another friend. Unfortunately, all she had was a suspicion and she wasn't sure what to do.

Atsuko didn't want to go to Hikari and express her concerns, because Hikari is a very nice person and would probably just give away the necklace just in case it was stolen. This would be a shame because she really liked it and had already bought the outfit to go with it, and the necklace might not have had no connection to the theft.

Atsuko also didn't want to go to Tsukiyama and ask about this for the same reason. Tsukiyama is also extremely considerate and would probably have just said that it wasn't hers so as to not take the present away from Hikari. This would also be a shame if it really WAS her gemstone.

So Atsuko wanted to find out where that necklace had come from and whether that amethyst was the same one that had been stolen from Tsukiyama. However, while the local magistrate (Daidoji Kuroka) was a personal friend, she didn't want to go to him with this dilemma. This would basically be asking him to choose which woman got to keep the necklace, and since he knew both of them personally, that would be a cruel thing to ask of him.

So she comes to the PCs because she's heard from her friend Hantei Gurin that they can be discrete and effective when looking into matters such as this. (This assumes that the PCs did a good job in the first adventure, which my current group did.) She wants the PCs to find out where this necklace came from so she'll know the best course of action. Further, she needs this taken care of within 5 days, since there will be a party at the end of the week which both women will be at.

She bought the necklace from a respected jewelry merchant named Yasuki Genji, who she's known for years and trusts implicitly. So she thinks the PCs can start by talking with him and finding out where he bought the jewelry. He can be trusted to be discrete, which is important since Kuroka would certainly be offended if he learned that the PCs were conducting another investigation on his turf without him.

Genji will tells the PCs that he bought the necklace from a wealthy Crane noble named Doji Kinryoku who lives in the Toyotomi district, along with about a dozen other pieces. He says that Kinryoku said that they were his and that he was selling them so that he could afford a new set, since he wanted a change. Genji doesn't know any more specifics about Kinryoku or even have any clue where in the Toyotomi district he can be found.

The PCs ought to be able to track him down eventually, since he was being honest about his name and location. When confronted, he'll deny ever having said that the pieces had been part of his personal collection. What he actually said was that he was looking for money to buy more pieces for his wardrobe, and Genji must have just assumed that's where those pieces came from.

However, he will refuse to say from where he bought the pieces. He'll say that it was someone who he's sure would never steal or buy stolen goods, and he doesn't want to get this person in trouble. Also, this person might not want to do business with him again if he sends the PCs their way. Since the PCs aren't magistrates then he doesn't want to tell them anything further.

At this point the PCs have several options. One thing they can do is bribe Kinryoku - he'll bring this up if the PCs don't. He'll want 10 koku, but could be bargained a little lower with a decent contested commerce roll. For enough money he'll tell them everything.

The PCs can also go to the magistrates. Kinryoku won't be willing to conceal information from magistrates. In this case however, the magistrates will share a lot of the credit, so Atsuko will owe the PCs less than if they'd handled this on their own. Also, it would probably give Kinryoku time to tip off the other person that the PCs are looking for them.

There are other approaches the PCs could take, such as putting lots of pressure on Kinryoko by making threats, letting him go to his source and following him, finding out more about him from people in the area to reason out who he probably would have bought the jewelry from, etc.

Eventually the PCs should learn that Kinryoku bought the jewelry from a retired geisha named Tujiko who runs a jewelry sale and repair business out of the Heaven's Gift geisha house, where she used to work. If the PCs are knowledgable about commerce and the underworld then they can probably infer that Tujiko buys stolen jewelry and mades modifications and resets the gems on different pieces, then has Kinryoku use his status as a wealthy noble to sell them without attracting suspicion. Of course, neither of them would ever admit to this.

Tujiko will be suspicious of the PCs and want to take offense at the suggestion that she bought stolen goods. Depending on how things go, she might try to have them thrown out of Heaven's Gift, which would make for an interesting combat if the PCs tried to resist since they wouldn't have their weapons. Of course, the bouncers would also be using nonlethal weapons.

If Tujiko is pressured sufficiently then she'll reveal that she bought a lot of those pieces from a geisha named Keiko, who said she was selling them because she was retiring and getting married. Tujiko asked Keiko for no information other than this, and the PCs can probably infer that she figured the goods were stolen, though she'd never admit to that. All she can offer is a loose description of Keiko as being a bit under 5 feet tall with a quiet voice and long hair.

Tujiko also confirms that the necklace was originally a tiara matching the description of the one stolen from Tsukiyama. So at this point the PCs have basically solved the adventure, though it's possible that they can take it a step further. If they ever meet with Tsukiyama, then they'll find that her personal servant fits the descripton of that "geisha" perfectly and is even named Keiko.

If they reveal this to Tsukiyama, then she will question Keiko privately and tell the PCs that Keiko confessed. She'll ask the PCs to keep this quiet since it's embaressing for her to have been duped like this, and she'll say that she's sending Keiko back home to Daidoji lands to be punished appropriately. She'll thank the PCs profusely, saying that she owes them a great deal for having uncovered all of this.

However, if they talk to Keiko alone themselves (which Tsukiyama would adamantly protest) then they'll hear a quite different story. Keiko will reveal that she staged the robbery under orders from Tsukiyama, who evedently needed the money from selling the jewelry and moving to a cheaper house. This is potentially extremely embaressing for both her and her House.

Tsukiyama's need for money stems from the fact that her House is trying to get control of this district, so she's needed to give many lavish gifts in order to help form relationships and friendships. However, she recently found that she needed more money than she had access to in order to continue doing this, which is why she had Keiko stage the robbery.

Neither Tsukiyama nor Atsuko would want this information to get out; Atsuko being friends with Tsukiyama as well as Kuroka (the magistrate gunning for the position of governor). And the PCs were asked to be discreet. So if they get this information, then whatever they do with it would be a complex decision based on a lot of different factors.

Anyway, those are all of the important details for this adventure. If anyone wants to hear specifics about what my players did, reply to this post asking and we can try to get one of them to post a summary with those kinds of details.
