
The PCs are approached by Matsu Chikara. He respects the work that they have done in this district and has a problem which he can't take to the magistrates. His supplier was recently murdered, after which a man he'd never seen came to him and tried to pressure him to start buying from him. Chikara refused on the grounds that he's always refused to be part of anyone's criminal organization.

Since then, some of his guests have been attacked and beaten on their way home from his house. One of them is Matsu Hiroshi, the courtier the PCs met in the previous adventure, and it was he that advised Chikara to coem to the PCs. He also told Chikara that it was okay for Chikara to send the PCs to talk to him, which is why Chikara is willing to identify one of his guests.

The PCs unfortunately have no real leads, but Hiroshi will argue that this is probably the work of Ide Tensuko's organization, and urge the PCs to look into some of her known lieutenants in the district. The PCs have personally encountered a few of these lieutenants and will likely start by questioning them.

One their way out of one such interview, the PCs will be attacked. The person behind this is actually Yomaru, who knows about their investigation through talking to Chikara. He thinks that it's a perfect excuse to bump off the PCs, especially since Tensuko's organization will be blamed for it, and the fallout from that will cost them dearly.

After the attack, the PCs will be approached by Ide Tesuko herself. She will give her word that the PCs were NOT attacked by anyone working for her. She will then try to convince them to investigate Chikara, who she believes knows the true identity of Hida Yomaru. She will inform them that Ryoma, who is clearly now working for Yomaru, has recently switched sides in the campaign for governor. Previously he had supported Kuroka, but immediately after joing with Yomaru he began supporting Oshu.

Tensuko believes that Yomaru is actually some high-ranking Lion samurai who supports Oshu out of clan loyalty (and also because as a Lion he'll believe that it's better for him to have Oshu in charge). She also believes that Chikara must know the identity of Yomaru, since he's a fellow Lion in the opium business who also supports Oshu. Tensuko is correct about all of this, and she will urge the PCs to put as much pressure on Chikara as possible to learn who Yomaru is.

Tensuko will say that she'll consider it a personal favor if they can uncover Yomaru's identity. She also says, without admitting anything, that the pressure currently being put on Chikara will stop, since the PCs are probably in a better position to handle this anyway.

Chikara will be a tough nut to crack. He'll flat-out deny ever having bought opium from Yomaru (which is true, since he's lived here much longer than Yomaru), say that he's never been part of anyone's organization (which is also true), and that he has no idea who Yomaru even is (which is a lie).

The only way that the PCs can possibly convince him to give up Yomaru's identity is by persuading him that Yomaru has been using him to try to kill the PCs. He has in fact done this twice now. If Chikara thought that he had been made an unwitting accomplice in a murder, he would definitely disclose Yomaru's identity.

However, this is a daunting task, and it's unlikely that the PCs will be able to persuade him to cooperate, although it is possible. The PCs might even walk away believing that he doesn't know anything, depending on their skills at detecting lies. At the very least, they should have Chikara filed away as someone who might be useful later.

Even if Chikara decides to cooperate, he won't be able to testify about Yomaru (aka Matsu Toshi) committing any crimes, since he's never witnessed that. In fact, Toshi has never explicitly said that he's Yomaru, although Chikara has managed to figure it out based on some things that Toshi has said. Thus, the PCs will need to pursue the matter further, although Chikara's cooperation will make the following adventure MUCH easier.
