
The PCs are approached by Hida Zenshi, who needs their help with a delicate matter.  A man named Mimota has been accused of mugging a doshin.  Mimota has been arrested for pickpocketing in the past, but has no history of violent crime.  In fact, he's occasionally been helpful to Zenshi as an informant in the past, so Zenshi owes him for this.

Mimota seems truthful about not mugging the doshin, but Zenshi can't outright accuse the doshin of lying.  In fact, even having an official investigation would be an insult to the doshin, whose word should be given far more weight than that of a criminal.  So Zenshi wants the PCs to quietly look into the matter.

Here's what happened:

The doshin Shoichi is working a second job; in addition to working as a doshin he also works part time for a local security company.  The other night while patrolling he found a burglar and in the process of subduing him had his nose broken.  Unfortunately, Oshu has forbidden the doshin from working for Ryoma (Oshu believes that security companies are really just protection rackets and should be treated as such).

So Shoichi needed to explain his broken nose.  So he went to the outside of a bar and threw himself to the ground and cried out that he'd been attacked.  Some doshin were patrolling nearby and responded.  He pointed to a nearby alley and said that the man who'd attacked him had gone that way.

The two doshin gave chase and when they emerged from the alley, they saw someone walking away and gave chase.  Since they didn't immediately identify themselves as doshin, the man (Mimota) began to run away.  They chased him down and dragged him back to Shoichi.

When they got back, they took Mimota's money pouch away, gave it to Shoichi, and said that they'd gotten his money back.  They even explained that Mimota was a known pickpocket, since one of them recognized him as such.  Shoichi had NOT been expecting this, and just went along with it since he didn't want to admit that he had made the mugging up, and the whole thing happened so fast that he really didn't have time to think.

The PCs ought to be able to uncover this.  Shoichi isn't a very good liar, and since he never entered the bar, no one there will remember even seeing him.  Thus, the PCs should eventually be able to get him to confess the whole thing, although he'll try to get them to promise not to tell anyone.

One thing he'll mention is that lots of doshin are working for Ryoma, and that he specifically made a big move to hire lots of doshin recently.

This whole "adventure" is really just a mini-adventure designed to get the PCs aware of Ryoma and the fact that he's hiring doshin.  It's basically the prologue to the real adventure, which I'll explain in my next post.


Here's the next part of the adventure:

When the PCs report what they've found to Zenshi, they'll be asked to look into Ryoma.  Zenshi had no idea that so many doshin were working for him and wants to know the extent of this.

Here's what's going on: Hida Yomaru needs more fighting men working for him, especially after losing Riho.  So he approached Ryoma and hired him and the thus got access to the men working for him.

Unfortunately, most of the men who used to work for Riho had either left town or been snapped up by Ide Tensuko's organization.  However, they soon managed to track down where a bunch of those men were staying and Ryoma sent a bunch of his goons over to kill them, since they were now working for the competition.  Two of his own men were killed in the process.

So now Ryoma had just lost a few men and needed to start devoting a large part of his workforce to running Yomaru's operation.  As a result, he needed to hire a lot more men to fill in the gaps.  So he started targeting doshin; he'd previously tried to hire them but gave up after finding out that Oshu had ordered them to not work for him.  However, now he had a much more serious need and was willing to pay more and work harder to get them to come work for him.  So he managed to hire a few dozen of them to come work for him part-time.

When asked about this, Ryoma will simply say that he had been understaffed for a long time, since it was difficult to find good, reliable workers.  He said that he was happy to be over-staffed with doshin, who are known to be well-trained and decent and trustworthy.  He'll also say that while a few dozen doshin are working for him, since they're all only working part-time, it's only the equivalent of a few full-time workers.

A few parts of this story don't add up.  Here are some holes that the PCs can poke in it:

 - If they take the effort to track down and get a feel for how many hours the doshin are working for Ryoma, they'll find that it's much more than he's claimed.  This will be difficult since the doshin will be very reluctant to talk to them, and Shoichi will outright refuse to tell them who else is working for Ryoma.

 - Ryoma's explanation for why he lost two men suddenly is that he fired them because he suspected that they were stealing.  He'll say that he has no idea where they lived, although some investigation will reveal that most of his men live in the same apartment complex.  He'll also say that he can't really describe their appearances since there was nothing distinctive about them, but investigation will reveal that one of them was prematurely bald and the other was kind of fat.

- Ryoma says that hiring the doshin didn't reflect anything urgent, but Shoichi will say that he and other doshin got paid a hefty bonus to join and were pressured to recruit other doshin.

- Ryoma will say that he hired doshin to work the night shifts since that's what he needed.  However, further investigation will reveal that the men he "fired" didn't even work the night shift.  The PCs won't easily be able to confirm or refute his claim that he had been understaffed for some time, although if they're clever they might be able to figure out that it's not true.

None of this is especially damning, and the PCs won't be able to find anything that indicates that Ryoma has committed any crimes, but they'll probably conclude that he's up to no good.

However, they may decide to try to track down the men who Ryoma claims he fired (Utaka and Kisho).  Their old landlord will tell the PCs that these guys disappeared suddenly.  He says that a man named Mikio came by looking for them, saying that he'd just hired them and that they'd stolen some money from him.

Mikio was lying about this; in fact he's part of Ide Tensuko's organization.  Since the attack that killed Riho's former men, he was trying to figure out who'd done it by tracking down fighting men who'd recent disappeared.  Since Utaka and Kisho had recently disappeared, he was trying to see whether they were wounded or dead, since that would imply that they (and thus Ryoma) had been involved in the attack.

If the PCs talk to Mikio, he'll tell them that he'd hired Utaka and Kisho but that some money had disappeared from his money box the first night they'd shown up.  However, if they press him, then his story will have holes in it.  He'll say that he can't remember who else was working that night, for example.

Immediately after the PCs leave, Mikio will talk to the men in his establishment who used to work for Riho.  He'll explain that the PCs are looking for them, probably because they hated Riho and drove her out of business, and that they're probably looking to lock up them as well.  He'll tell them to get lost and lay low for awhile to avoid stirring up any trouble.  Interestingly, he'll have this conversation in the presence of a high-ranking courtier named Matsu no Goshen Hiroshi.

These men will immediately leave and catch up with the PCs and attack them.  After being defeated, they'll confess to working for Mikio and explain that he all but told them to attack the PCs.  However, Mikio will be able to have Hiroshi testify that he never said any such thing, although Hiroshi will admit that in hindsight Mikio probably wanted them to attack the PCs.

The PCs can possibly get Mikio's business license revoked, especially when they find that he's running an opium den (Riho's former men will testify that this is true).  This might be tricky depending on their relationship with Kuroka and Oshu.

Riho's former men who attacked the PCs will also testify that many of their friends were killed around the same time that Utaka and Kisho disappeared.  The PCs can investigate and find that their bodies, along with the bodies of Utaka and Kisho, washed up on the other side of the river in the neighboring district.  This might clue them in to what Ryoma is doing, although they still won't hand any grounds to harass or arrest him.
