A merchant named Matsu no Goshen Teru approaches the PCs with a problem he's been having. He says that when he was last practicing at his friend Matsu Oshu's dojo, Oshu was talking about how well the PCs handled their most recent investigation. Teru is hoping that they can help him out as well.

He's about two years into a five year contract with a local Goshen merchant named Reiji, who owns a few dozen general stores. Every three months, he sells Reiji three months worth of tobacco at the price specified in the contract. However, a shipment recent arrived in Otosan Uchi, but when it was being delivered to his warehouse, some men which had been lying in wait inside attacked and killed the guards and one of Teru's employees. All of his tobacco was stolen.

Teru's contract with Reiji specifies that if Teru misses a deadline, then the deadline can be extended for 10 koku per month. However, the wording of the contract makes it ambiguous whether Reiji must accept the offer of 10 koku. In fact, Reiji is arguing that the contract's use of the word "may" implies that he is free to refuse, while Teru argues Reiji is taking that word out of context.

Reiji wants to end the contract because he has recieved another offer from a merchant named Daidoji no Bakan Shigeri, who is friends with Daidoji Kuroka. She primarily sells directly to inns and teahouses and other such establishments, and her tobacco has gotten a reputation as being very good, so she wants to branch out and sell directly to general stores.

Teru believes that in a fair hearing, his contract dispute would be decided in his favor. However, because Kuroka is friends with Shigeri, he's worried that Kuroka will be biased and rule against him. However, if he goes into business with the PCs, then there will be people from different clans involved in the dispute, and the matter can be taken before an Imperial Magistrate.

(As a side note, one of the mercenaries killed in the tobacco warehouse attack was Tsuneki, who the PCs may have learned was the man with whom their attackers in the previous adventure had served under. This will probably be of interest to them if they know about Tsuneki.)

If the PCs take the case, they will have to help Teru in two hearings. The first is a hearing before Yoruga to see whether he will even hear the case. Kuroka contests that the PCs are acting appropriately, and argues that they are trying to twist the letter of the law to their own ends. At the hearing, he will spring on the PCs the idea that Zenshi should hear the case, and will claim that he would have made that decision himself if the PCs had approached him rather than trying to go over his head.

The PCs will have to argue exceptionally well to prevent Yoruga from kicking the case back to Zenshi. If they do very poorly then he will chide them for acting as they did, and Kuroka will be able to legitimately claim that he came out on top in the hearing and bested the PCs. If they do well, then even if the case is given to Zenshi then it'll be presented as a compromise.

Whoever hears the case, the PCs will have a difficult time winning outright, but if they argue well then they can get another compromise, such as the contract being extended for one month for 10 koku, but then only extended at Reiji's approval after that. This is likely what will happen unless the PCs roll exceptionally well across the board.

A few nights after the hearing, Teru's warehouse is attacked again. However, this time the attackers were caught off guard. Teru had been worried about another attack, and so he had station 5 guards outside the warehouse but then secrely put 10 additional guards inside.

The guards had been ordered to take at least one attacker alive, which they did before the others were diven off. However, their captive almost immediately pulled a knife and stabbed one of the men guarding him and ran for it, at which point another guard stabbed him to death with his spear.

This man's body is eventually identified by his older sister. She reveals that he was a opium addict and a gambler who his family eventually had to cut off until he agreed to stop doing both of those things. She doesn't know where he smoked and gambled, but based on where he lived the PCs can narrow it down to a few establishments.

When the PCs enter one such establishment, they are attacked by some of the guards, one of whom recognizes them and thinks they've come as part of a hit. He's seen them talking to Riho and her men and believes that they are in league with her. Anyone taken alive after the fight will reveal that the warehouse was attacked not to get at Teru but to kill Riho's men.

Riho has apparently been providing Hida Yomaru (or whatever his real name is) with men. Thus, the rival drug lords have been attacking her men trying to kill them, and trying in partcular to kill her higher-ups. Stealing Teru's tobacco was just a bonus.

At this point, the PCs have to decide what to do about Riho. As Kuroka will explain, there's no direct testimony to implicate Riho from any non-criminals (and depending on who the PCs get this info from, there might not be any actual testimony at all). Therefore, Kuroka would be hard-pressed to arrest her, and it'd be reaching for him to even revoke her mercenary license.

In fact, Kuroka is worried about the political fallout from revoking her license. Riho is a magistrate from the Matsu House, and if she goes down then it's likely that a Daidoji merchant named Senta from the Bakan house would pick up a lot of her business. Kuroka knows that people will cry foul if he revokes her license improperly, and so he's inclined to only do it if everyone agrees that he should.

In particular, he wants Matsu Oshu to agree to keep any Lion samurai from criticizing him for the decision. Oshu will likely agree to this, since he cares more about bringing down "Hida Yomaru" than hurting Kuroka politically. However, the PCs may prefer to instead keep Riho around and closely watched in the hopes that she'll inadvertantly clue them in to the true identity of Yomaru.

That's all of the really imporant stuff from this adventure. I've left out a lot of minor details, and my players can fill those in if they feel like it.
