GRIFTS / SCAMS
--------------
During one of the adventures, the PCs will meet a pair of traveling merchants named Shinjiro and Tsubasa who will ask the PCs to help them with a series of business endeavors, which are increasingly sketchy.

First, they explain that they are running a gambling game in an alleyway on market day, and want the PCs to help them attract players. Since folks are more likely to want to play in a game where others are already playing, the PCs will be given some money to gamble with, and then they'll return whatever they have at the end of the evening. The PCs will win a lot and the other players less so (the dice being used by the PCs are weighted to help them win, while the dice used by the other players are unweighted, though the odds on the game are very biased towards the house).

The next endeavor is to attempt to sell a teacup using the classic "violin" grift. Instead of describing the grift myself, I'll just link to the TVTropes page: tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/ViolinScam

The third time they have a more involved plan. They are acting as guards for a merchant traveling all the way to Kyuden Bayushi, but this merchant is paying them only a pittance, though he has agreed to give them hazard pay if they run into trouble on the road. Thus, the PCs are asked to cause some trouble on the road in order to force this merchant to give out this hazard pay. Specifically, the PCs will cut down a tree just before the merchant arrives at a certain point on the road, then refuse to move aside or hurry Weakgs up to clear the tree from the road. The PCs will be belligerent and insulting towards the merchant and block any attempt to carry his cart over the tree. The idea is for the merchant to ask Shinjiro and Tsubasa to chase the PCs away, agreeing that this is hazardous enough to warrant giving them the hazard pay. (If the PCs are inclined to try their hand at banditry, they could use the information about where the merchant will be to launch an attack and steal his goods and money.)
