
A radical monk named Baiten has been growing in popularity in the Toshi Ranbo province.  Baiten attracts fanatical followers who themselves become monks and go out and start their own ministries.  He's from southern Phoenix lands where he has spent a few years building up a ministry.  He has visited Dragonfly and Dragon lands and now has moved farther south towards Toshi Ranbo.

Baiten is controversial for several reasons:

1) He often urges peasants (mostly tenant farmers) to leave their homes and families to pursue a monastic life, usually by starting or joining some charitable mission.  For example, the daughter of one of the village headsmen in Hikobayashi raised some money and started a soup kitchen in a nearby city.  In some cases dozens of peasants from the same village or hamlet will walk away from their lives in mid-harvest to follow Baiten or to join whatever monastic communities he sends them to.

2) He preaches that the next Day of Thunder will soon arrive.  He says that he has no idea whether this will happen in a day or a year or a decade, but predicts that the forces of darkness are gathering.  Many samurai worry that this kind of talk will throw the peasantry into a panic.

3) His followers say that he's a prophet, that he has mystical healing abilities, that he's the descendant of Shinsei, that he has reached Enlightenment, and many other things.  Baiten himself tends to not deny these things, but not really deny them either, and many of the things he says or does tend to reinforce these beliefs.  For example, he claims to have the ability to interpret dreams, and many come to him to seek his wisdom in this manner.

4) Many of the monks and peasants he teaches end up saying or doing extreme things.  For example, the first round of censorship cases involved a follower of Baiten who went on a hunger strike.

A better example of Baiten-related controversy was the case which led to the Prince stepping down and instituting the Board of Justice.  One of Baiten's followers came to Toshi Ranbo and started a group devoted to educating peasants in religious songs and chants.  He eventually made a public speech in which he possibly said and/or implied (reports vary about precisely what was said) that the Prince would be like the next Iuchiban, dividing the Empire and aiding the forces of darkness through immoral and unjust actions.

This monk's followers denounced the speech and said that they had no idea he would give it.  However, the Prince still had every member of the group executed, which resulted in significant unrest.  Although Baiten himself was not directly involved in any of this, the Prince blames him for having mentored this monk in the past.

Baiten has never actually been to Toshi Ranbo, but he's making such a large splash throughout the province that the governor and prince have discussed how to handle him.  They fear the backlash that would arise if he was executed, but they are still considering it.  Alternatively, they may decide to have him imprisoned, possibly allowing him visitors and possibly not.  Most likely they would simply exile him from the province.  However, as of the beginning of the campaign they are planning on waiting to see what happens next, hoping that he'll move on and/or be less disruptive than they fear.
