A trio of Dragon magistrates has recently arrived and joined the staff of Mirumoto Yagura, the Dragon clan ambassador to the city of Toshi Ranbo.

Mirumoto Kiyoshi is a blunt-spoken bushi who doesn't bother to dress up his words in diplomatic language.  He doesn't go out of his way to offend, but when discussing people he freely offers his opinion, whether good or bad.  His observations are usually cynical, especially regarding the goals of the city government.  If given the opportunity, he will brag about his dueling skills, and he will be quick to take offense if provoked.

Togashi Ichiharu is an enigmatic tattooed monk who tends to turn everything into a question.  He tends to ask high-level questions rather than specific ones; rather than asking what the PCs think of a particular NPC, he would tend to ask instead what criteria they would use to judge that person.  He often deflects questions in this manner, though he'll usually end up speaking his mind when prompted, even if only indirectly.

Kitsuki Hina is the highest ranking member of the group, but sits and walks behind her companions despite her higher station.  She rarely speaks, but when she does her companions will immediately become silent and let her take over the conversation, at which point she will usually do all of the remaining talking, even answering questions addressed to her companions.  Hina is actually a far superior duelist to Kiyoshi, and she will end up being the one to answer any challenges directed at the group.



PIRATES ON THE DROWNED MERCHANT RIVER
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
The city has recently had a problem with barges being attacked as they travel up the Drowned Merchant River.  An investigation discovered that the barges were all attacked in the same general location on the river, with the Lion clan on one side and the Dragonfly on the other.  Not wanting to cause an international incident over a few merchant barges, the Tsume decided to do nothing.

However, a local sergeant named Tsume Osamu was not satsified with this.  He was wary of provoking the Lion clan, but figured he could get away with risking an incident with the Dragonfly since they are only a Minor Clan.  So he paid some traveling merchants to journey to the domain and try to discover whether anyone there had unexplained wounds.  It's standard procedure after a bandit attack to check the local peasantry for wounded peasants, but Osamu believed that the Dragonfly magistrates may have been lax since the attacks are occuring on the river and don't involve anyone from their clan.

Osamu eventually learned that there is an ashigaru who recently came home late at night pretty badly beaten up, and no one whom the merchants spoke with had any idea how he got them.  Osamu rounded up some of his men and made a raid into that village.  They stormed into the hut where the wounded man lay sleeping and woke him with their swords to his throat.  Osamu demanded to know who his accomplices were; who was with him when he was wounded.

The man was actually innocent, having been mugged on his way home from market late last week.  He reported the attack, which actually happened the night before the most recent pirate attack.  However, he was too disoriented and scared and confused to properly articulate these facts, especially since he had no idea who these men were or why they had come.

In fact, his defense w as so jumbled so as to appear inconsistent to Osamu.  First the man denied everything sayin that he had no idea what they were talking about, then he explained that he had been mugged.  Eventually he tried to explain that he had tried to fight back but had been drunk, but the story came out as if he was claiming that he had been in a bar-room brawl.  Osamu took all of this as proof of his guilt, and demanded once more to know who had been with him.

The ashigaru mentioned that his cousin had been with him when he was injured, which Osamu interpreted as a confession.  Osamu was told that he could ask the man's cousin, who lived in the big house in the field adjacent to this one.  Osamu summarily executed the poor ashigaru and ordered his men to surround that house.

Osamu then loundly called out the bandits living in that house, explaining that he had come to kill them as punishment for their crimes, that their house was surrounded, and that they should prepare themselves for death.  The ashigaru who lived there rushed out with their weapons in hand to see what was happening and saw Osamu and his men, dressed in dark clothing with no clan affiliation visible.  They were quickly killed in the resulting combat, and Osamu returned to Toshi Ranbo, satisfied that he had done his duty to protect the barges.  He did not brag about his accomplishment, except to a few of the men under his command, since he knew that what he had done might be problematic for his House if it were to be made public.

However, the Dragon magistrates themselves were also investigating the barge attacks.  They ended up discovering the real culprits, who were actually living in Toshi Ranbo and following barges as they left the city.  The reason why the attacks happened along the same stretch of river is that's how long it took the pirates to catch up with the barges after waiting a suitable amount of time before following so as not to attract attention.  The Dagon magistrates confronted their suspects, who proceeded to attack them.  Those who survived the first few seconds of the combat surrendered and confessed to everything.  They were turned over to the magistrates and quickly executed.

The Dragon eventually learned of the Tsume raid, after being told by ________________ because ___________________.  They confronted Osamu, who didn't feel comfortable lying about his accomplishment and explained the whole thing.  At this point the Dragons turned the matter over to the PCs, asking that Osamu be charged for his crimes.

Osamu truly believes that he was correct and that the peasants he killed were pirates.  He says they must have been in league with the pirates which the Dragon caught, and that those men did not point the finger at their accomplices out of a sense of loyalty.  The Dragon point out that they could have saved their lives by doing so, since turning in other criminals is one of the best ways to avoid execution.

The PCs must decide whether to charge Osamu, and if they do then whether to rule with the assumption that his victims were bandits.
