For a thousand years the the city of Toshi Ranbo was the capital of the Damasu, one of the largest houses of the Akodo family.  Three years ago the domain was conquered by the Tsume, one of the largest houses of the Doji family.  Due to a severe flooding after a torrential rainstorm, the city was cut off from reinforcements, so the Tsume attacked with a huge army and took the city before reinforcements could arrive.

The attack was completely unprovoked, although the Tsume justified it by citing a recent insult which the Damasu had dealt them.  One of the bushi attached to the Tsume ambassador to the Damasu was caught smuggling opium into the city of Toshi Ranbo, and rather than turn him over to the Imperial magistrates to stand trial, the Damasu simply executed him.  This was highly improper as well as illegal, but the Tsume's response was hardly proportional.  Still, the insult was considered justification enough for the Emperor to refrain from intervening against the Tsume.

The Akodo made an attempt to take back the city with a huge army drawn from all across the clan.  However, in their rush to attack before the city could be re-fortified, the Lion failed to coordinate their forces properly.  Each general wanted the glory of being the one to take the city, and so they each threw all of their forces at the city, disregarding their battle plans.  When one general managed to breach the city walls, rather than redeploying their forces to assist her, the other generals instead continued to throw their forces at other parts of the walls.  They each assumed that the Lion would ultimately be successful, and no one wanted to be the general who failed to breach the walls themselves or be seen as riding on the coattails of another more successful leader.

Although the Tsume's own general was quite skilled, it was ultimately the leadership of General Doji no Doji Chuto that resulted in the Tsume's success in repelling the Lion forces.  Chuto was the commander of the northern armies of the Dojo and is an extremely patient and calculating tactician.  He discerned the lack of coordination among the Lion and adjusted his strategy accordingly.  When one attacking general managed to breach the city walls, Chuto predicted that the other generals would not reinforce him and instead focus on the more glorious goal of trying to storm other parts of the city themselves.  Thus, he deployed his men to fight the Lion forces inside the city district they had managed to breach, and only moved to take back control of the wall after defeating them on the city streets.

Further attempts to storm the city walls were ultimately unsuccessful, and eventually the Lion withdrew from their attack.  They had invaded too quickly to have established sufficient supply lines, and in the wake of their defeat at the hands of the Crane, the generals from distant houses saw much less chance for glory.  Before long, the attacking army dwindled as various daimyo ordered their forces withdrawn.

The Lion have not yet attacked again, but have not abandoned their claims to the city and have been biding their time and gathering their forces.  In the meantime, the Emperor reluctantly recognized the legitimacy of the Tsume invasion.  However, because the invasion was launched on flimsy pretenses, as a condition for legitimizing the invasion, the Tsume agreed that the Imperial magistrates in Toshi Ranbo would have expanded jurisdiction until the Emperor deemed that the city had returned to normalcy.

Toshi Ranbo is the third largest city in Rokugan, with a population of 60,000.  The invasion was 3 years ago, and the city has settled down somewhat.  Martial law was recently lifted, and it's been almost a year since the last major riot.  The Imperial magistrate representing the Emperor is Hantei Fukuhashi, one of the Emperor's children by one of his concubines.  After a series of controversial rulings, he decided to spread out Imperial authority by appointing an Imperial magistrate to each of the city's districts.

Lion cities are traditionally divided into districts with walls separating districts and often separating neighborhoods as well.  Peasants wanting to enter, leave, or travel between districts need special papers.  Although this helps prevent crime, it's extremely stifling to commerce and trade, so the Crane have lifted all such restrictions.  However, the districts still represent a logical separation between areas of jurisdiction, so each district is governed by a captain, and each district has one of the PCs assigned to it as its Imperial magistrate.

Each PC has appellate jurisdiction over one of the districts.  Thus, instead of matters being appealed to the Minister of Justice, things are appealed to the PC assigned to the district.  A PC may unilaterally decide not to hear the case, in which case any earlier ruling will stand.  Or the PC may decide to hear the case, and all of the PCs will vote on the matter.  The PC from whose district the case came from gets 2 votes.