
Matsu no Matsu Yokijiro started off as a county magistrate, and he highly impressed his superiors through his devotion to his duty.  He trained far more peasants in martial combat than is typical, and spent time giving personal instruction to all of them.  He evaluated their abilities and gave higher stipends to the ones who worked the hardest and became the most proficient.  In addition to fighting techniques, he also took great care and time to personally instruct and test these men on the teachings of Lord Akodo and Lady Doji and the Shinsei, working with the monks in his county to educate the peasantry about their moral and civic obligations.

He ended up challenging and killing the governor's Minister of Public Works in a duel, accusing him of having laborers imprisoned on flimsy pretenses just to beef up his workforce.  The skill he displayed in the duel, coupled with his well-known work ethic, prompted the governor to choose Yokijiro as his yojimbo.  Yokijiro accepted the position, and proceeded to throw his weight around frequently, calling out other members of the governor's administration anytime he perceived any kind of corruption.

He ended up being promoted to the daimyo's Ministry of Justice in the capital, both because he was seen as being tough on malfeasance and because his governor's administration largely wanted him gone.  Yokijiro took on the job of reviewing complaints about the conduct of bushi, and was incredibly harsh, both on officers who stepped even a little out of line and on peasants whom he felt were bringing meritless complaints.

In the process, Yokijiro made many enemies, and the Chancellary felt they had to reign him in on several occasions.  He balked at being restrained, and eventually he was promoted once again to the position of Family Magistrate in a faraway Matsu domain.  While there he was involved in several altercations with the locals, but the House of Matsu was happy to back him up in keeping this other House in line.  Eventually he got into an argument with the Clan Magistrate, an Akodo bushi whom he felt was showing undue favor to a clansman and making a blatantly wrong ruling.  The resulting duel in which Yokijiro killed the other magistrate was eventually ruled valid by Akodo Toturi, but the incident still strained relations between the Matsu and Akodo families.

Yokijiro was offered yet another promotion, this time to become a commander in the Imperial Legions.  However, he declined this promotion because he believed it would offer him few opporunities to fight injustice.  He judged that the Empire was currently too peaceful and orderly to offer many chances for him to use his abilities in battle.

Instead, Yokijiro decided to take up the wandering life, seeking out injustice and searching for ways to apply his strength and knowledge to help the Empire.  He eventually felt called to come to Toshi Ranbo because of the strife happening in the city.  He plans to start a school for any peasant or samurai who wishes to be instructed in the teachings of the Great Ancestors.



THE LION'S ROAR
----------------------------
Yokijiro carries an exceptionally well-crafted katana named Akuzuki, sheathed in an extremely ornate saya.  One day while walking through the marketplace, he overheard a bushi comment on the workmanship and add a snide comment about how the sword seemed "too good for him".

Furious, Yokijiro showed his stance and called out the bushi, daring the bushi to repeat the insult.  After ignoring a few stammered attempts to avoid a confrontation, Yokijiro raised his hand as if to strike.  The bushi jumped back rather than attempt to block or counter, and Yokijiro proceeded to scornfully berate the other man for cowardice.  Eventually the bushi withdrew, and after hurling a few more insults, Yokijiro continued on his business, considering the matter to be settled.

If asked why he didn't challenge the man to a duel, Yokijiro will explain that he does not seek out duels, but merely uses them when appropriate to settled disputes.  Since the other bushi backed down, Yokijiro considered his own honor to have been properly defended.  He will accept any challenge to defend his actions, but none will be offered by any Crane in the city unless the PCs manage to talk someone into stepping up.

However, because of this incident, the district captain petitions the PCs to have Yokijiro ejected from the city.  He explains that although Yokijiro didn't necessarily do anything wrong, his mere presence in the city will surely lead to more incidents of this natue, which will be disruptive to the city.  The captain is further offended by the notion that Yokijiro apparently believes that the Crane clan needs some Lion to come and tell their peasants right from wrong, as if the Tsume are incapable of doing this themselves.

The captain will further call into question the safety of having such a Lion in the city, since he may have opportunities to sabotage or otherwise undermine the city's defenses.  If brought up, Yokijiro will immediately give his word that he will take attempt no such thing.  He explains that if the Lion do attack, he intends to immediately leave the city and join the attacking army, fighting honorably as a bushi should.

The PCs must decide whether to kick out Yokijiro; theoretically they should only be able to do so if they find that Yokijiro has acted improperly in some way.  However, it's unlikely that Yokijiro would win an appeal given the high rank of the PCs and his reputation for causing trouble, so the PCs could probably get away with ejecting him even without giving a specific reason.



BY THE BOOK
-----------------------
If not ejected, Yokijiro will proceed with his plans to start a school.  He puts the word out, coordinates with local temples, and begins buying supplies.  One of the first things he needs is a large number of copies of Akodo's Leadership, which he orders from a book merchant named Hantoku.

During a staff meeting with his lieutenants, the district captain makes it known that he really wants Yokijiro gone and hopes that something happens soon that will give him an excuse to have the Lion ejected.  One of his lieutenants arranges to have Yokijiro's travel papers stolen from his pack at the inn where he's staying while he is eating breakfast.  Yokijiro did not immediately notice the theft since nothing else was taken; he carries his money on his person at all times.

In order to have a pretense for asking whether the travel papers were taken, the lieutenant tells Hantoku to ask to see Yokijiro's travel papers when Yokijiro arrives to pick up the books he ordered.  Although someone doesn't need any kind of license to purchase goods in Toshi Ranbo, it is customary to ask to see travel papers to see whom you're doing business with.  Hantoku didn't ask to see them when the order was placed because Yokijiro was obviously a weathy bushi.

However, Hantoku will go along with this request, asking casually to see Yokijiro's travel papers just as a formality.  Yokijiro will immediately realize that they are missing, but believes that he may have left them at the inn, since nothing else is missing.  Hantoku accepts his explanation and apology and sells him the books anyway, explaining that Yokijiro's word is proof enough, since he's obviously a bushi of high moral character.  Yokijiro leaves without suspecting Hantoku, who proceeds to report directly to the district captain that Yokijiro doesn't have travel papers.

The captain assumes that one of his lieutentants must be responsible for this, although he will never admit this.  He proceeds to confront Yokijiro and order him to leave the city since he lacks the proper documentation.  Yokijiro immediately accuses the captain of being behind the theft, which the captain denies.

The matter is taken to the PCs.  Yokijiro demands that the captain be forced to give his word that he had no involvement, either directly or indirectly.  In particular, Yokijiro demands that he give his word that he never made it known that he would want such a thing to happen, because Yokijiro knows from experience that this is a common way for officers to get their subordinates to misbehave on their behalf.  If the captain cannot or will not give his word in this manner, Yokijiro asks that the Board of Justice compel him to duel Yokijiro.

The captain refuses to give his word for anything, taking offense at the suggestion that he should have to, and angrily declaring that he will not subject himself to such an insult.  He asks the PCs to uphold his order to have Yokijiro ejected.  He explains that Yokijiro's threats and accusations are further proof of how destabilizing a presence Yokijiro is and why he should not be allowed to remain in Toshi Ranbo.

The PCs must decide how to handle the captain and/or whether to eject Yokijiro.



TOO COOL FOR SCHOOL
----------------------------------------
Assuming that he isn't ejected from the district, Yokijiro's school goes well, and he easily attracts dozens of bright and interested pupils, including a few Tsume samurai children.  However, after a few weeks, several of the Tsume children drop out.  When asked, their parents are evasive and don't give a satisfactory answer.

Yokijiro believes that they are being pressured to keep their children away.  They had originally seemed excited at the prospect of their children receiving such advanced instruction at such little cost.  However, Yokijiro cannot easily investigate for himself whether their superiors are responsible for their change in attitude, so he asks the PCs to look into the matter.

In fact, these parents are being coerced by one of the lieutenants in this district, but will probably be unwilling to admit this to the PCs.  It will be difficult to get anywhere with this investigation, although it may be possible to discern what the lieutenant is holding over them; in each case the parent has an appointed position which results in an extra stipend that they have been warned they might lose.  For example, one parent runs the district's stables.

Of course, the PCs are under no obligation to listen to Yokijiro's complaint, and he will not push the matter with them if they decline to investigate, or if they do and don't find anything.
