
Although the provinces surrounding Toshi Ranbo have fertile land, they're mostly suited to producing grain.  As a result, the city imports a significant amount of rice.  Before the invasion, the Dorai House of the Shinjo family had a longstanding trade agreement with the Damasu to supply the city with rice, which they shipped yearly down the Drowned Merchant River.

Because the city has been so unstable for the past several years, the Dorai have not made the same arrangement with the Tsume.  However, now that martial law has been lifted and the city has settled into some kind of normalcy, they're considering coming back.  In order to get a better gauge of the state of the city, they've sent Deputy Minister of Commerce Shinjo no Dorai Rakuo, who will try to get a sense of the city and negotiate with the Tsume.

This is a situation where each PC may get some kind of directive from their respective clans about how to influence Rakuo.  The Shinjo family has been sending their rice into Ryoko Owari for the past few years, so the Scorpion clan would like to see him decide that the city is still too unstable.  The Crane clan would certainly like to see him come back, while the Lion clan would not.  The Unicorn clan would simply want Rakuo to be given an accurate picture of how stable the city really is.  Most other clans won't care, although certain specific Families or Houses may have some sort of stake by being allied or opposed to one of the factions involved.

Shinjo Rakuo himself will turn out to be quite interested in getting to know the city better, starting with its more entertaining places.  He will attend lavish parties of wealthy merchants and nobles, as well as geisha houses and even dens of ill repute.  This alone will probably end up with him having to interact with the PCs at least once as a result of some trouble he manages to get into.

Mostly, Rakuo is in the campaign to provide another interesting NPC who may end up interacting with the PCs and various other NPCs in interesting and potentially unexpected ways.  He may even end up getting targeted by Jama Manabu due to his well-known name and his proclivity for going into potentially dangerous situations.


HUNTING IN HIKOBAYASHI
--------------------------------------
The PCs will be called to see the Prince at a small estate which he maintains along the bank of the Drowned Merchant River.  When they enter, he's sitting comfortably on a cushioned seat while fishing out a window.  At some point during the conversation, he'll get a bite on his line and hand the rod off to a servant to deal with.

The Prince will inform the PCs about the arrival of Shinjo Rakuo and invite them along on a hunting trip he and Rakuo will be taking at the far end of Hikobayashi county.  The trip will be an excuse to investigate the border, as there have been reports of Lion military activity there, including allegations of incursions into Tsume territory.  The PCs are asked to investigate these claims while on the trip.

The hunting itself will be quite pleasant.  The party will ride on horseback until the Prince signals everyone to stop and dismount.  Soon afterwards, a few deer will come bounding out of a nearby patch of trees.  Clever and/or observant PCs will discern that the Prince had servants waiting in the woods, ready to release these animals upon their arrival.

The next phase of the hunting is fishing, where everyone is given spears and posted along a creek, where the Prince expects fish to be plentiful.  Indeed, shortly after everyone arrives, fish begin swimming rapidly downriver to be speared.  Once again, the Prince has servants slightly upstream, ready to release already-caught fish.

One issue here which the PCs must decide is whether to out-perform the Prince in this expedition.  His initial shot at the deer goes extremely wide, and the PCs may want to emulate this so as to not embarrass him.  Similarly, he missed in his first attempt to spear a fish (although he succeeds at spearing the second one), and the players must decide whether to let the fish that got away from the Prince pass them by or whether to spear it themselves.

The PCs will spend the rest of the afternoon crossing the border to find and speak with the commander of the Lion forces there.  He will reveal that an ogre has been sighted in the area, which is the reason for the increased Lion presence.  He will deny crossing the border at any point, but argue that such crossing WOULD be justified if his men were hot on the trail fo the beast... not that this has happened... just that it wouldn't be wrong if it had.  The PCs must decide whether to condone or come down strongly on this attitude.

That evening, the hunting party will dine on the bounty of their hunt at a large hunting lodge close to the border.  However, after dinner, there will be an enormous commotion.  The Prince will enter the sitting room where the PCs are enjoying some fine plum brandy with Rakuo and reveal that the horses have been let loose.  Because the dozens of guards which the Prince brought along were all Crane bushi and the horses were all Tsume horses, the Prince believes that Lion forces may be responsible.  He explains that while the horses are rounded up, he has sent his yojimbo to summon the Lion commander, and he wishes the PCs to really grill him when he arrives to determine whether any of his men were or even could be responsible.

A few minutes later, after the Prince has retired for a quick power nap, the doors to the sitting room slide open and reveal a group of bandits, who look shocked to see so many armed men remaining in the hunting lodge.  Some of them are already carrying valuables which they have taken from the lodge and its attached barracks.  They immediately demand the PCs turn over all of their valuables, and a combat will quickly break out when the players refuse.

Rakuo will immediately declare, "I invoke my right of protection!"  This is a reference to the Emerald Charter, which requires that Imperial Magistrates are responsible for protecting foreign dignitaries.  Rakuo, as a merchant who is very unskilled in actual combat, will not participate in the fight unless he absolutely has to.

The only noteworthy thing about the fight is that the leader of the bandits seems to be incredibly skilled, and he has a very unusual fighting style which the PCs may not recognize.  He has the ninja profession, and he will fight to the death, even if his companions surrender.  Any survivors will reveal that he let the horses out to create the distraction and get most of the guards to chase after them, leaving the hunting lodge largely unprotected.

Although that resolves the adventure, there's another optional encounter which the PCs may have later that night, depending on the outcome of their encounter with the Nightingale bushi in the earlier adventure in Hikobayashi.  Those bushi will be found banging pots together and making a large commotion in the countryside.  When confronted, they will reveal that they are hunting the ogre which was spotted in the area.

They explain that they are flushing out the ogres by making noise, which scares them into running.  This is actually COMPLETELY wrong, but a popular play contains this strategy, and their ignorance may stand out.  Similarly, they will explain that they came to hunt the ogre at the request of the peasants who had been their hosts during their last visit, and they felt obligated to respond (even if they are not allowed in Hikobayashi).  If they have been banned from the county, the PCs will have to decide what to do about them.  Also, since the ogre was only first spotted two weeks ago, it's suspicious that they would be here so soon.  In truth they were here visiting their families, and if the players have not already figured out that they are really peasants who took up swords and posed as ex-Damasu, this may allow them to figure that out.
