
Baiten the monk will be banished from Toshi Ranbo unless the PCs expend a significant amount of effort and political capital to keep him around.  However, when he leaves, he will proclaim to his followers in the province that the Tao no longer prevails in the city of Toshi Ranbo.  Most of the monks in the city leave, along with hundreds of peasants and even a few dozen samurai.

Governor Yasujiro responds by requesting that Grand Abbot Benshi journey to Toshi Ranbo and bring with him dozens of monks from his order.  Benshi is the Grand Abbot of the Order of Sadahako.  The founder of this order was a prophet who used art and song and plays and stories to spread the Tao; Sadahako was later declared the Fortune of Artists by the Emperor.

In many ways, Benshi is the opposite of Baiten.  He is fiercely orthodox, he emphasizes that peasants stay in their place, he is a political thinker who involves himself deeply in the affairs of government.  In other ways he is very similar to Baiten; he is constantly testing the limits of what he can get away with, he gives provocative sermons, he is quick to denounce wickedness.

Benshi will become a major force in the city, and the PCs will need to deal with the fallout of his actions in a number of ways throughout the campaign.


OUTRAGE OVER OUTRAGEOUSNESS
----------------------------------------------------------
Grand Abbot Benshi will give a series of public demonstrations, each followed by a sermon.  He'll start relatively small and see what he can get away with, gradually escalating to more and more dramatic things.  In most if not all of these cases, he will even have local magistrates present during these demonstrations, who approve of what he's doing.

Benshi has his monks perform a series of controversial plays.  In one, the protagonist is a bandit who is a rather sympathetic character; although he eventually dies as a result of his banditry, he is a pious man who cares about his family.  Many object to such a conflicted message, feeling it gives the wrong message to the peasants, and the PCs must decide whether the censor the play.  However, no high-ranking official will be willing to publicly oppose the play, since the governor has mandated that city official cooperate with Benshi so as to not antagonize him.

Benshi's next play is even more provocative.  It involves several unscrupulous merchants who seem to be thinly veiled versions of real-life unpopular merchants here in the city.  They are eventually murdered by bushi as punishment for their moral failures; some of the bushi are punished and others are not.  Some local merchants are upset, feeling that this may be a call for bushi to take vigilante actions against merchants whom they perceive as sinful.

Benshi's first demonstration is significantly more outrageous.  A local wheat merchant known for price gouging answered a knock at his door to find Benshi and mob outside on the street.  They forced him to climb into a coffin, which they nailed shut and carried to the market square.  Benshi proceeded to give an hour-long funeral service for the wheat merchant, listing his transgressions and urging the audience to strive to avoid the same sins that led to the wheat merchant's downfall.  After a few hours they eventually let the merchant out of the box, where he furiously demanded that Benshi be punished for this outrageous behavior.

The following demonstration is even more extreme.  A landlord who often neglects his properties and fails to make even basic repairs is confronted by a mob of his tenants, led by Benshi.  In order to show that such greed is not acceptable, Benshi leads the peasants in "symbolically" running the landlord out of town... which consists of actually chasing him out the city gates.  The landlord returned to find that his office had been broken into and his lockbox smashed and the money there had been taken by Benshi and distributed to his tenants.  He angrily petitions the magistrates to censure Benshi and return his stolen rent proceeds.

Benshi has another demonstration which he'd like to perform but knows he could not do without express permission.  A wealthy sake merchant has a large estate outside the city, near the large expanse of rice land which he owns.  The tenant farmers who work this land have long complained of his unfair demands; for example, he does not allow the farmers who work his land to eat any of the rice they grow, saying that this rice is too good for them, and they should spend their own money to purchase rice grown elsewhere.  Benshi wants to soak the man's house in sake after kicking him out and have the farmers each light a fuse and burn it down.  However, this would require support from both the PCs and some high-ranking city officials.

These are just some examples, and the PCs must ultimately decide whether they approve or are threatened by this sort of behavior.


PROMOTING THE TAO
------------------------------------
Grand Abbot Benshi will proceed to conduct hundreds of interviews, questioning every corporal and sergeant in the city.  He will do many of these personally, though given the scope of this task he will delegate much of the work to his most trusted subordinates.  The interviews will primarily concern the Tao of Shinsei and how it is viewed and understood by these bushi and how they apply it in the course of performing their duties.

Benshi proceeds to recommend to each district captain which of these officers should be promoted or demoted.  Most of these recommendations will be taken, as per the governor's instructions to cooperate with Benshi.  However, some captains will end up declining to demote some officers from their own House, and declining to promote some officers from a different House, e.g. a Doji captain refusing to demote a Doji sergeant while demoting a Tsume sergeant.  This case will be brought before the PCs, and they will have to decide whether to try to compel captains to uniformly enforce Benshi's recommendations (the legal basis for doing so would be extremely shaky, but the PCs could always pressure the captains in other ways).

Conversely, the PCs may feel threatened by Benshi's attempts to insert himself into the power structure of the city government, especially by ensuring that so many members of the officer corps owe him their positions.  They may try to pressure the city to NOT accept Benshi's recommendations; the captains will appreciate this, but the governor will not.
