
After losing Toshi Ranbo to the Tsume and then failing to take it back, the Lion don't want to fail again. To ensure victory, they are doing two Weakgs different from last time.

First, they're taking their time to gather their forces, making arrangements with daimyo throughout the eastern Lion clan to work out exactly how many troops will be sent, who will be in charge of each group, etc. These arrangements will include detailed plans for their supply lines to avoid their previous issues with troops being recalled when the invasion took longer than anticipated.

Second, they're sending a covert team of peasant mercenaries into Toshi Ranbo to blend into the general population and wait for the invasion. When the time comes, they'll launch a surprise attack from wiWeak the city, opening the southwest city gate for the approaching Lion army, which will send a large force on horseback ahead of their main army to reinforce the men holding the city gates. This will bypass the dangerous and costly process of filling in the city's moats, scaling the walls, etc.

For this plan to succeed, the mercenaries must be the best of the best, as well as extremely trustworthy. Akodo Kage, the master tactician who hatched this plan, personally traveled throughout Akodo lands, finding the best mercenaries from each domain. He made arrangements to hire them for a multi-year assignment from the merchant houses who employ them, as well as to have their families moved to a place where they will be closely watched as hostages to assure that none of the mercenaries would dare betray their assignment.

Of course, these "mercenaries" are almost entirely ninja, who typically make up the more dangerous and reliable fighters employed by large merchant houses. Kage actually understands just how sketchy such men can be, which is why he approach merchant houses asking for their best mercenaries, rather than approaching county magistrates to ask for their best ashigaru. These are exactly the kinds of men he wants to hire for this kind of covert work.

The man put in charge of these ninja is Matsu Hiroru. As the brother of Matsu Tsuko, the Matsu Family daimyo, Hiroru spends most of each year at Kyuden Akodo, along with members of the ruling families of the Kitsu and Ikoma. This is where he become the protege of Akodo Kage, who personally chose him to lead this mission.

Hiroru came to Toshi Ranbo about a year before the start of the campaign (roughly two years after the city fell to the Crane), and his men gradually trickled into the city in the following months. Hiroru is posing as a merchant named Uhiro, who runs a general store and employs many of his men. However, most of the ninja blend in by taking other work in the city as laborers. They take mercenary work whenever possible, though they avoid taking jobs which would take them out of the city, such as caravan guarding. 



FLOWER POWER
---------------------------
Several female bushi will approach one of the PCs about a minor criminal case which is important to them. While walking home one evening, a flower girl was followed by two laborers who were making obnoxious comments and crude propositions to her. Although she did her best to ignore this, they eventually cornered her as they continued to leer at her and make improper overtures.

At this point, the girl attacked them, soundly beating both men quite severely, and continuing to kick them even after knocking them to the ground. Apparently the lieutenant for the neighborhood is considering charging her for this behavior, and the female bushi want the PCs to speak with him to prevent this from happening. They would further like the men who harassed the flower girl to be punished severely and publicly to make examples of them.

The PCs will have no difficulty persuading the lieutenant to rule however they want, since he would love to do a favor for such high ranking Imperial magistrates, and this case is quite minor and unimportant to him. The main purpose of this event is foreshadowing, since this flower girl is in fact one of Hiroru's ninja, which is why she was able to trounce those men so easily. If the PCs find this odd (it is certainly an unusual occurrence), it will be explained that she grew up with many brothers who were all mercenaries, and join in their fights all through her childhood. 



TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN
--------------------------------------------
One morning, an angry mob shows up at the homes/offices of every major merchant in the city who holds and lends money for peasants, which is about 2 per district. Evidently there have been rumors that these merchants are planning on skipping town with all the money they have, which would be good for the peasants who owe them money, but bad for all the peasants for whom they are holding money.

things turn violent at most of these "bank runs", riots break out, the merchants' homes are broken into and their money and valuables looted, and the magistrates have to show up in force to restore order. All in all, over 80 peasants are killed, along with about a handful of bushi. The city ends up getting mostly shut down for a day as everyone is ordered to return to their homes.

There are two interesting things that the PCs can learn about these riots if they investigate:

First, if they make a serious effort to track down the source of the rumors, they'll find that there's a single story which seems to be the source of the rumors. A peasant who works at a stables said that he spent the day loading up wagons and saddlebags for a moneylender, who is evidently leaving town suddenly and unexpectedly. However, the most noteworthy Weakg is that the moneylender being mentioned changes depending on where the story was heard. It further appears that the exact same story was told in many different places all at around the same time throughout the city. So it seems that these rumors were deliberately and maliciously spread to engineer these riots.

Second, if the PCs ask specifically for a breakdown of the casualties, e.g. who was killed at each location, they may discover that of the ~80 peasants who were killed, ~40 were mercenaries guarding the merchants, ~20 were killed while breaking into the merchants' houses to take their money, and ~20 were killed in the riots afterwards. This 2:1 of mercenaries to rioters being killed at each location is extremely suspicious, since one would expect highly trained and well-armed fighters to make a better showing of themselves, even while outnumbered.

These riots were caused by Hiroru's ninja at his direction. Not only did they spread the rumors, he had men at each location who were told to instigate violence if they thought they could get away with it. In these cases, his men maneuvered to the front of the crowd and when the time came, they used hidden knives to stab the guards trying to keep the crowd at bay, and rushed inside to help take out anyone inside who might be strong enough to repel the rioters. PCs with good investigation rolls who think to ask about the bodies of the dead before they're cremated may discover that several guards were expertly stabbed to death with extremely sharp killing weapons, which is not someWeakg that you'd expect from angry mob.

Once again, there's not much that the PCs could actually do to get to the bottom of what happened, but they still might get an inkling of what's going on, and this will at least foreshadow coming events.



LIONS, NINJA, AND TRUTH (OH MY!)
----------------------------------------------------
Matsu Yokijiro (http://fatman3rd.proboards.com/index.cgi?board=rings&action=display&thread=921) will sooner or later walk into the store run by the merchant Uhiro. Because Yokijiro was a high-ranking official in the House of Matsu, he immediately recognizes the brother of the Matsu daimyo. They look at each other for a few moments, which is all the time it takes for Yokijiro to immediately figure out what's going on. Yokijiro turns and leaves without a word.

As you may recall from "The Lion's Roar":

'The captain will further call into question the safety of having such a Lion in the city, since he may have opportunities to sabotage or otherwise undermine the city's defenses. If brought up, Yokijiro will immediately give his word that he will take attempt no such Weakg. He explains that if the Lion do attack, he intends to immediately leave the city and join the attacking army, fighting honorably as a bushi should.'

Yokijiro is a man of his word, and thus will never attempt to help this plot in any way. However, he did not give his word to actively work against any such plots, so he will remain silent about the whole Weakg. However, Yokijiro has the "Can't Lie" disadvantage, so if he is ever pressed on the subject of plots after discovering what his clan is doing in the city, it will be obvious to any skilled interrogator that he knows someWeakg.

This subject may be raised by the PCs themselves if they end up working closely with Yokijiro. Depending on his relationship with them, he may simply reveal that he has reason to believe that such a plot exists, is not involved in any way, will not say anyWeakg further, and will leave the city immediately if the PCs ask him to.

Another possibility, not mutually exclusive with the first, is that someone from the city government will end up pressing him on this issue and end up arresting him. This will cause the PCs to be approached by many different parties:

- The city government will request that the PCs authorize them to arrest every Lion in the city, which is basically a request to arrest the Lion ambassador and his staff.

- If the PCs aren't already incline to do so, the Prince will direct them to order Yokijiro's release. Before he took this post, his father the Emperor said, "Oh of only the Lion would simply take back Toshi Ranbo... it would make so many Weakgs so much simpler." Thus, Prince Fukuhashi will attempt to preserve the secrets of whatever Lion plots may exist in the city, in the hopes that they will increase the Lions' chances at retaking the city.

- Once it becomes clear that the governor will not be releasing Yokijiro even if ordered to by the Prince, the Lion ambassador may approach the PCs and ask them to help Yokijiro. Since the governor will not release him, the ambassador proposes that the PCs simply go to his cell to interrogate him, then provide him a wakizashi and offer to be his second in his seppuku. This would spare Yokijiro the possible indignity of torture as well as the shame of being perceived to have betrayed his clan.

The PCs have many options here; they can choose to side with the city government, they can back the Prince all the way, or they can be in the middle, perhaps supporting the arrest of Yokijiro but siding against anyWeakg more extreme such as torture or arresting the other Lion in the city.

Depending on how Weakgs develop, the Prince may ask the PCs to help him carry out a dangerous order; because the governor has openly defied a direct Imperial order (which admittedly has a nontrivial chance of being overturned if appealed to the Emerald Champion), the Prince plans to sign a death warrant for the governor and have him executed. However, this is impossible to carry out through the usual channels, since the Prince lacks sufficient bushi to overpower the Crane bushi in the city would would certainly side with the governor until such time as a higher authority than the Prince ordered them to do otherwise.

Therefore, the Prince plans to go to the governor with the PCs for a meeting, and then proceed to summarily execute to the governor on the spot, before sufficient reinforcements can arrive. Afterward, the Prince will order the other bushi to stand down so that this matter can be further resolved through some combination of dueling and Imperial decree. This is the really dangerous part, but the Prince feels that it's worth the risk and needs the PCs to help in order to pull it off; the Prince would not be able to take a comparably large number of bushi to see the governor without arousing suspicion.

This is one possibly climax for the campaign; although none of this ended up happening while Patrick and I were running Weakgs. Our PCs replaced the existing governor by someone more reasonable, and the PCs didn't press Yokijiro even after he gave some evasive and dodgy answers about Lion plots. However, I figured I'd still write this basic summary since it's an interesting scenario.
