
Asako no Asako Kagetsu ->
    Daimyo of the Asasko family.  Remains largely uninvolved with the courtship
    so as not to be a bas host by favoring any one of his guests.
    
    constantly looks tired; not accustomed to quite so many late nights due to
    social events quite so often

Kuni no Kuni Mugen ->
    Imperial magistrate assigned to the Asako family.  Wants to avoid getting
    caught up in the politics of the courtship.  About to retire due to old age
    and failing eyesight.
    
    in his early 60s with gray/white hair and beard



Otomo Yorishiku ->
    Imperial Princess, 18 years old, the Emperor's sister's daughter
    
    small and dainty, but always collected and graceful

Kakita no Kakita Nantoko ->
    A handmaiden and friend to Yorishiku's for over 10 years.
    
    mid-thirties, very beautiful

Hida no Hida Younta ->
    Another handmaiden to Yorishiku, she has been a mother figure to
    Yorishiku, whose real mother died shortly after giving birth to her.
    
    mid-fourties, very overweight, boisterous



Dojo no Tohei Gidayu ->
    Crane clan ambassador to the Phoenix clan.  He's been friends with 
    Yorishiku's father (Tadahiro) since before she was born, and has 
    worked with her older brother (Banu) in negotiating trade agreements
    between the Otomo/Crane and even the Otomo/Phoenix.
    
    heavilly muscled with a pot belly, which seems to be even larger
    than it was the last time the PCs met him

Doji no Tohei Kento ->
    Gidayu's karo, he realizes that Gidayu's antagonism towards Niban
    probably stems from the fact that Niban was Gidayu's old karo (which he
    now knows, although he was not aware of this in the previous adventure).
    He will refuse to discuss this, saying truthfully that he does not know
    why Niban became a ronin and that it would be wrong to speculate.  He
    believes that it would be worthwhile to be on good terms with Niban,
    but doesn't want to directly go against the wishes of Gidayu.
    
    vain and perhaps a little effeminate

Niban ->
    Formerly Gidayu's karo, very cultured and well-mannered.
    
    large and muscular



Akodo no Akodo Idomu ->
    Lion suitor, high-ranking magistrate and bandit hunter.
    
    either poorly groomed or rugged, depending on your perspective

Shosuro no Michio Jocho ->
    Scorpion suitor, future governor of Ryoko Owari
    
    somewhat short, wears a formal half-mask that covers only part of his
    upper face

Mirumoto no Mirumoto Genki ->
    Dragon suitor, ambassador to the Dragonfly clan.  Very intellectual and a
    prolific writer of nonfiction, both about history and theology.
    
    always calm, with the top of his head shaved and a ponytail

Shinjo no Shinjo Masaki ->
    Unicorn suitor, general in charge of the borders of the Shinjo house.
    
    unusually short hair, laughs a lot

Shiba no Shiba Himitsu ->
    Son of the karo to Shiba Ujimitsu, presumably future karo to the Phoenix
    daimyo, and an accomplished duelist.
    
    tall but neither bulky nor skinny

Hida no Akito Ryuden ->
    Crab suitor, daimyo of the Akito house, brother of Juramashi
    
    large and burly

Doji no Doji Jimon ->
    Crane suitor, son of the Doji minister of commerce
    
    baby-faced, dressed less extravagently than any other suitor




Niban runs Nightingale village, and would like to turn the Nightingale into a
minor clan or at least a vassal family of the Phoenix.  He's at this Winter
Court because Koan made it to the finals of the last Setsuban festival's 
shugenja competition, and he's hoping to use this newfound noteriety to add 
legitimacy to his new group.

Nightingale village is located in an area of Asako lands close to the Dragon
clan border which is sparsely inhabited due to the land not being very good.  
Since this land is not particularly desirable, he has a decent chance of 
gaining Kagetsu's approval.  Kagetsu would likely start off by granting him some
position of authority such as tax collector over the lands surrounding 
Nightingale village, and have him him officially report to the magistrate at 
Yotsubashi, the closest large town.

However, Gidayu is making some small moves to keep this from happening.  
Although Kagetsu knows that Niban used to be Gidayu's karo, Gidayu doesn't want
to actively speak out against it, because he doesn't want to appear to be 
holding any kind of grudge against Niban.  This would raise questions about 
whether Gidayu was involved in whatever shame caused Niban to become a ronin;
Gidayu has always claimed that he doesn't know what dark secret led Niban to 
leave the Crane clan.

Gidayu thus has been emphasizing to Kagetsu that Niban can't necessarily be 
trusted, that many of his "mercenaries" are almost certainly former bandits, etc.
Kagetsu is somewhat uncertain of Gidayu's objectivity (though he would never say
so), and thus is seeking other opinions.

Niban will cautiously approach the PCs to see whether they'd be willing to speak
positively about him.  If they are, then he'll try to have them present when he
speaks to the other suitors.

Niban will speak to Shiba Himitsu over tea and try to gain his support.  He will
flatter Himitsu, appealing to his pride as a warrior.  Assuming the PCs are 
there, Himitsu will try to fell them out to see their opinions on Niban.  
Eventually he'll conceed that Niban is clearly intelligent and cultured, but 
will wonder aloud how skilled he is as a warrior.  This will lead the two to 
arrange a practice duel in the dojo.  Himitsu schedules this for the following 
evening, and uses the intervening time to make sure everyone knows about it so
that many people will be there to see his victory.

Between this and the duel, the PCs will have a meal in which they will be seated
close to both Doji Jimon and Mirumoto Genki.  Jimon reveals that he doesn't 
think Niban should be trusted, and echos Gidayu's concerns about how many former
bandits are probably working for Niban.  The PCs may choose to respond to this 
or ignore it altogether, although if a discussion breaks out then Genki will 
speak on the matter as well, tepidly in support of Niban.

Afterwards, Genki will come to the PCs privately and ask about Niban in greater
detail.  He will say that he believes Jimon is simply sucking up to Gidayu, but
that when he (Genki) weighs in on the matter, he simply wants to know what kind
of man Niban is.  He asks the PCs whether they know anything about how Niban 
became a ronin; this is often considered an impolite subject, but Genki claims 
that Niban has himself made it an issue by asking to be placed in a position of
authority.  Genki says he'd like to speak to Doji Kento to hear whether his
opinion on Niban matched Gidayu's, but he's unwilling to risk offending Gidayu
and thus possibly sabotaging his courtship of Yorishiku.

If the PCs speak to Kento, he will do his best to help them garner support for
Niban without actively supporting them, since he knows Gidayu disapproves.

Also between this and the duel, Kuni Mugen will approach the PCs.  He knows
that Niban has approached them, and he wants their opinion on him.  He will 
approach them in this manner regardless of whether they have been trying to
help Niban.  If asked, he'll  say that he's asking around as a favor to Kagetsu.
He'll press them on why Niban came to them, and what relationship they've had
with him in the past.  The PCs may decide to come clean about the scrolls being
lost while under their care or decide to lie to him.

Regardless, before the duel, Mugen will ask the PCs to keep a close eye on the
fight.  He knows Niban by reputation and believes him to be a better duelist
than Himitsu, and is wondering whether Niban plans to throw the duel to curry
favor with Himitsu.  Niban will indeed throw the duel with Himitsu, although
it would take an investigation roll of at least 50 to realize this.

After the duel, Himitsu does in fact compliment Niban on his performance, 
saying that Niban has impressed him both with his intelligence and fighting 
ability, and that he believes Niban deserves a chance to take on a little more
responsibility.

Shosuro Jocho will then make a disparaging comment about how dueling someone 
seems like a poor way to decide whether they are trustworthy.  Himitsu openly 
insults Jocho, saying that perhaps if he'd ever been in a real life or death 
situation instead of leading a pampered life, that perhaps he'd understand.  
The two exchange a few insults, Himitsu asks Jocho whether he'd like a turn 
mock-dueling him, but Jocho blows him off.

The princess witnesses all of this, but is turned off by Himitsu's macho 
attitude. This will soon become widely known as she begins to give him the cold
shoulder.

The next day, Mugen will ask the PCs their thoughts on the duel.  They will
probably be unable to offer anything one way or the other, but while they are
talking to Mugen, Akodo Idomu approaches all of them to make a formal complaint
about Shinjo Masaki's gifts.

All of the suitors periodically give gifts to the princess, but Masaki's gifts
all appear to be of gaijin origin.  He says that they were all made in Unicorn
lands, although his denials are spoken as if to imply that the gifts are in fact
as exotic as they appear.  The gifts include a magnifying glass, a statue, a rug,
a piece of jewelry, and a bottle of an exotic tasting beer.

Idomu claims that as a magistrate, he is offended that someone would so
blatanty violate Imperial law by flaunting gaijin goods.  He'll also appeal to
the PCs sicne they are present.  Mugen refuses to commit to anything but says
he'll look into it.

After Idomu leaves, Mugen sighs and asks for the PCs' advice.  He doesn't want
to be involved in a squabble between suitors, but Idomu has something of a
point, and he doesn't want to ignore his duties as a magistrate.  He'll probably
ask the PCs to talk to Masaki and feel out whether he's going to continue giving
such gifts, and let him know that he's treading on thin ice, but without being
confrontational or threatening.  (This is obviously a tall order.)

Musaki will protest that this is unfair, since his goods were all legally
created in Unicorn lands.  However, he'll probably agree to no
longer give these kinds of gifts and claim that he had almost run out of exotic
gifts anyway.  Although this is not true, he will simply continue to give these
gifts to the princess in secret, which he hopes she'll find romantic.

That afternoon, someone posts a several copies of a haiku around the castle.
(I'm not terribly happy with my haikus, but I think it's important that they be
haikus, so I'll go with these unless we can come up with something better.)
Pathetic Phoenix
Surrendered his last real duel
Only wins fixed fights

Himitsu is furious, as the poem is obviously about him.  Because he fears it
will come out at this Winter court eventually, he admits that he did in fact
lose his most recent duel.  He says that he initiated the duel because of an
insult which he will not repeat and was forced to back down when it became clear
he would lose.  However, he is furious about the implication that he would ever
participate in a fixed fight.  He's also dishearteded at the rumor that the
princess laughed at the poem when she read it and learned of its context.

Himitsu will accuse Jocho of being behind this, invoking the Scorpion steriotype
of shaming people with past events.  Jocho will naturally deny the accusation
and will himself be incredibly offended.

That evening, Idomu will return to Mugen and demand to know whether he has done
anything about Masaki's gifts.  Mugen will say that the matter is resolved, and
when pressed he will say that he directed the PCs to talk to Masaki.  Idomu will
confront the PCs and demand to know what happened.  He will express unhappiness
and ask how they know that they can trust Musaki.

Idomu spends some time that night and the following morning telling people that
Mugen had banned Masaki's illegal gifts.  This was basically his goal, although
he was genuinely offended by what he percieved to be an open violation of
Imperial law.

Around mid-day the following day, another haiku will be found posted in several
places throughout the castle:
Shameful Unicorn
Concealing exotic gifts
Lies to magistrates

This time Idomu seems a logical suspect though he will also deny having anything
to do with it, and say that even though the poem is probably true, such an
anonymous accusation is highly dishonorable, and only a coward would post
something like that.

Himitsu claims that Jocho is probably behind this, since it not only attacks
Masaki but also makes Idomu look guilty.  The princess herself tells him to stop
accusing others without any reason.  Himitsu looks angry but politely apologizes
and leaves.

The next morning before breakfast, an even worse poem is posted:
A blighted flower
Weed among chrisanthemums
A weed knows a weed

Even Himitsu seems shocked by this and at a loss for what to say.  However, at
breakfast the PCs are seated close to him and overhear him say that even a
flawed chrysanthemum doesn't deserve to be called a weed.  This could certainly
be interpreted as an insult, but none of the suitors are around to confront him
on this yet.

When Ryuden finds out about this, he confronts Himitsu and demands that Himitsu
apologize.  Himitsu refuses and Ryuden insults him, goading him on.  Himitsu
ends up challenging Ryuden, who accepts.  It would be nice if the PCs could be
the ones to tell Ryuden about this, although whether that's feasible depends on
what kind of relationship they've developed with him by this point.

The two want to duel that same day, but Kagetsu intervenes and demands that they
wait at least a few days.  He hopes that they'll cool off and that he'll be able
to get the princess herself to request them to call off their duel.  However,
the princess seems unwilling to do this.

The next morning, Himitsu is found dead in his room, hacked apart with his own
sword.  Mugen calls the PCs to help him out.  He says he's in a bad situation;
one of the castle guards say Ryuden out of his room last night a short distance
away from Himitsu's room, but he denied having left his room last night.

Mugen can't ignore this, but he doesn't believe Ryuden would murder Himitsu.
However, he can't afford to appear to be using kid gloves on Ryuden,
particularly because they're both from the Crab clan.  He asks the PCs to come
with him to keep the investigation above suspicion, and for them to take the
lead in interrogating Ryuden.

Ryuden admits that he did talk to Himitsu, but denies doing anything more.  He
seems embarressed about having lied in a moment of panic, particularly since he
knew that Nantoko saw him.  (This will obviously clue the PCs in that Nantoko
was there but didn't say anything.)

Mugen and the PCs will then talk to Nantoko, who will eventually flip out and
attack them, as she has been Blood-of-Midnight-ed.  To avoid having an NPC in
this fight, she will probably kill or at least knock out Mugen before the fight
really starts.

After the adventure, the PCs will recieve the following note:

To ____:

Congratulations on your recent work, both political and magistraterial.
I had wondered whether the events caused by my notes and other mischief
would yield and interesting play, and they far exceeded my expectations
in large part because of your fine work.  You should all be very proud
and know that I will be following your careers with great interest.

Kindest Personal Regards,
Jama Butei
